Cole B. HamiltonSenior Data AnalystEl Paso, TXCbhami02@louisville.eduwww.linkedin.com/in/hamiltoncole/ Self-driven professional with excellent writing skills with mastery in managing analysts, recruitment training, and agile team building in the United States Army. Flexible and devoted professional used to a fast-paced environment where problem-solving is crucial. Well-versed in using statistical and data analysis to identify underperforming areas and manage courses to increase junior members. Self starter with a passion for learning, exploring, and working on a team.Resources● Complete list of certifications found here: https://bit.ly/3Prq7g7● Self-development data analytic courses found here: https://bit.ly/3w6ZeqK● GitHub portfolio: https://github.com/Cbhami/Coraline● Published work: https://bit.ly/3NmK0nx Skills● Master in Agile Project Management, Human Resources, Leadership, and Staff Development. ● Highly advanced skills in data cleaning, data visualization, and report construction. ● Experienced in content design, virtual teaching, and development. Expert in M.S. Teams. ● Proficient in R, Python, M, and DAX programming languages.Professional ExperienceSergeants Major Academy Student – El Paso, TX				Aug 2022 - Present● Student at the distinguished Sergeants Major Academy. Selected as one of sixty-five eligible Master Sergeants to attend the SGM-A and progress to earn the highest enlisted rank in the United States Army (E-9 / Sergeant Major).Senior Data Analyst - San Antonio, TX					July 2020 – Aug 2022● Senior Data Analyst for the largest regional headquarters within the United States Army Recruiting Command. Architected and maintained data analytics models, reports, and dashboards for senior leadership and regularly briefed trends and insights. ● Enabled senior leaders to make data-driven decisions through statistical and strategic business analysis. Gathered insights from data sources and presented findings to senior leaders.● Designed and facilitated analytical tools, primarily Power Bi, r Studio, and Microsoft Excel. Executed query scripts and established tools for a team of 2,400 business stakeholders to utilize and enable them to enlist over 17,000 Soldiers into the U.S. Army.● Manages millions of data points using SQL and database connections to provide data analytics to senior Army leaders; improved production efficiencies and analytical skills across 250 recruiting stations.● Trained a staff of seven operations analysts and five training professionals to transform the regional headquarters in advanced Microsoft Excel and Power Bi report development. ● Established the 8-page Mission Report - updated and published daily with code pulled from Open Database Connectivity through R, SQL, M, and DAX scripting languages. Articulated regular benchmark achievements and performance through presentations while articulating insights to senior leaders.● Collaborated with regional developers and data engineers to produce data road maps to develop over two-hundred successful business intelligence reports and products delivered to the general.Leadership and Training Management ExperienceDistrict Recruiting Manager							May 2018 - July 2020● Served as the Senior Enlisted Advisor facilitating one of three companies covering all enlisted accessions and officer commissioning in Iowa. Led a geographically dispersed team to contact, interview, and enlist over 400 new Soldiers into the U.S. Army.● Advised the commander on briefings, public engagements, marketing opportunities, and onboarding processes for a team of 30 Soldiers. ● Upskilled over 30 senior army leaders in business solutions and business decision making through managing annual evaluations, awards and commendations, counseling, and mentoring. ● Generated business insights through data exploration and business intelligence methods. Used data and business intelligence to train new team members and increase enlistments by 130% over a two-year period.Senior Noncommissioned Officer					October 2004 - May 2018● Led as a senior human resources manager focusing on technical teams and process improvements in Army recruiting methods for over 200 direct and indirect reports.● Proven skills in executing tasks in a team environment and rise as a leader amongst peers.● Skilled, tactful, and adaptable leader who interacted with over 20 NATO, U.N., and DOD component installations and with 5 U.S. Embassies worldwide. Motivated a geographically dispersed team to collaborate and problem solve to achieve business requirements.● Performed as a Paratrooper and Engineer with the 82nd Airborne Division in Operation Enduring and Operation Iraqi Freedom. ● Formed and managed teams with diverse people through effective communication, conflict management, and social intelligence. Displayed skills in leadership and people management while planning special projects.EducationGraduate Certificate in Data Science (Est May 2023)● University of Louisville, KYDoctor of Philosophy, Human Resource Management (GPA 3.77) ● Northcentral University, La Jolla, CA Master of Arts, Leadership and Management (GPA 3.5) ● Liberty University, Lynchburg, VA Master of Business Administration in Finance (GPA 3.82) ● Post University, Waterbury, CT Top CertificationsSHRM-SCP Society for Human Resource Management – Senior Certified ProfessionalPMI-DASSM Disciplined Agile Senior Scrum MasterLean Six Sigma Master Black Belt PL-300 Microsoft Power Bi Data Analyst CertificationCompTIA Data+