5th Recruiting Brigade
JBSA – Ft Sam Houston, TX 78234

Master Sergeant Cole B. Hamilton

Master Sergeant Cole B Hamilton entered the Army at the Atlanta, 
GA MEPS as a 12B Combat Engineer on October 5, 2004. MSG Hamilton’s 
first duty assignment was with the 307th Engineer Battalion, 
82nd Airborne Division. Since his time with the 82nd, 
MSG Hamilton has served as a Squad Leader with the 391st Engineer 
Battalion in Greenville, SC, as the Assistant Center 
Commander for the Onalaska Army Recruiting Center, 
as the Center Leader for the Willingboro 
Army Recruiting Center, an Overseas Recruiter / Guidance Counselor 
for the Wiesbaden Army Recruiting Center, 
First Sergeant for the Northern Iowa Recruiting Company, 
and currently serving as the Sr Operations NCO and 
HHC 1SG for the 5th Recruiting Brigade. MSG Hamilton is 
scheduled to attend the United States Army Sergeant Majors Academy 
in 2022. MSG Hamilton has deployed in support of Operation 
Enduring Freedom and Operation Iraqi Freedom.
   
Master Sergeant Hamilton’s Military Education includes the 12B Combat Engineer, 
the U.S. Army Airborne, the Warrior Leaders, the Basic Noncommissioned Officer, 
the Army Recruiting, the Center Commander, the Senior Leaders, 
the Master Resiliency Trainer, the Guidance Counselor / Operations, 
the Equal Opportunity Leader, Army Basic Instructor, the Small Group 
Instructor, the USAREC Company Commander / First Sergeant, Master 
Trainer, Innovative Leader, and Battle Staff NCO courses. MSG Hamilton 
is a graduate of the U.S. Air Force Senior NCO Academy. MSG Hamilton’s 
Civilian Education includes a High School Diploma, an Associate of Arts 
Degree, a Bachelor of Science Degree in Business Management, a Master of 
Business Administration Degree with a Business Finance concentration, 
a Master of Arts Degree in Management & Leadership, and a Doctor of 
Philosophy in Human Resource Management (PhD-HRM) degree.
       
Master Sergeant Hamilton’s certifications include: Microsoft Teams 
Administrator Certification, Microsoft Certified Trainer, Microsoft Data 
Analyst Associate, Microsoft Power Platforms Certification, Microsoft 
Azure Data Fundamentals Certification, Microsoft 365 Certification, 
Lean Six Sigma Green Belt, Lean Six Sigma Master Black Belt, 
Society for Human Resources Certified Professional, and Project 
Management Institute Agile Certified Practitioner Certification.

Master Sergeant Hamilton’s Military Awards and Decorations include 
the Meritorious Service Medal with two bronze oak leaf clusters, 
the Army Commendation Medal with a silver oak leaf cluster, the Army 
Achievement Medal with three bronze oak leaf clusters, the Army Good 
Conduct Medal with three bronze knots, National Defense Service Medal, 
Armed Forces Reserve Medal with bronze hourglass, Afghanistan 
Campaign Medal with one Gold Star, Iraq Campaign Medal with two 
Gold Stars, Global War on Terrorism Medal, Noncommissioned Officer 
Professional Development Ribbon with a numeral 4, the Army Service 
Ribbon, the Overseas Service Ribbon with a numeral 2, the NATO 
ISAF Medal, the Meritorious Unit Citation, the Joint Meritorious 
Unit Award, the Army Superior Unit Award, the Combat Action Badge, 
the Basic Parachutist Badge, the Basic Recruiters Badge, the Driver’s 
Badge with a W device, the Expert Pistol Badge, and the 
Sharpshooter Rifle Badge.
       
Master Sergeant Hamilton lives with his wife, Leslie Teal Hamilton, 
and their sons Cole and Kolin Hamilton. His interests include distance 
running, gardening, learning, reading, writing, video gaming, and 
spending time with his family.

Master Sergeant Hamilton’s goals are: 
Short Term – Earn the PMI PMP, SHRM-SCP, and Disciplined Agile Scrum 
Master certifications. 
Long-term – Complete a certificate in data science at the University 
of Louisville. Earn distinguished honor grad at the Sergeant Major Academy. 