      New Era Recruiting and Retention Dempsey ThompsonSergeants Major AcademyFoundations CapstoneMr. Houck & SGM MenendezMay 22, 2023
New Era Recruiting and Retention       The post-COVID-19 era is changing how companies recruit and retain individuals with talents to strengthen their businesses. Several authors are getting this information to show the newest ideas on the companies succeeding in finding suitable applicants. The recruiting and retention of these individuals have their own set of challenges. The development of the employees plays a significant factor in the company's success. The diversity in a company and the ethical guidelines it sets can make a difference in its long-term success. Businesses in the post-COVID age must reevaluate their recruiting and retention strategies to attract or retain talented employees.Literature Review      How employees are recruited, developed, and retained has become significantly harder post-COVID-19. The application process changes make assessing the potential of an applicant difficult. There are new methods of recruiting using online targeting of potential applicants. Once a business can bring in a new employee, they have begun to evaluate how the relationship can benefit both parties. Several articles cover the three critical areas for companies creating a solid workforce post-COVID-19.Applicants      Finding the right applicant for a position has always been difficult for employers. By introducing social distancing into the applicant selection process, more online tools are in use. The number of online applicants has increased, resulting in multiple interviews to narrow the applicant pool to keep the same appropriate selections (Cleland et al., 2020). The author highlights that online applications make narrowing down applicants for positions more difficult. A much larger pool sees the job posting of potential applicants, and they have to sort out the applications by specific criteria to narrow it down to the top candidates.      When evaluating candidates, the quality of the information on the resume or application must be screened thoroughly. Between 81 and 99 percent of applicants are likely faking or misrepresenting information on their application. This has become more common with the social influences of competitive worldviews. These individuals typically have undesirable personality traits and are not usually team players (Roulin & Krings, 2016). This study shows percentages of how many applications misrepresent the applicant's potential. The employer must realize when the applicant needs to give themselves more credit in their application.      The over or under-misrepresentation of an applicant is difficult for an employer to get a clear picture of from the application alone. Many companies strive to be veteran-friendly employers because the veteran skill set is so beneficial, even though the application may not reflect key competencies (Hunter et al., 2020). The author highlights how diverse the veteran applicants are with their skills and experiences. The employers realize how beneficial that experience is to creating a positive organizational climate. The employer must diligently screen the applications and find the best applicant to fit their position.      The position has to be very clear on the qualifications they need to complete the tasks in the scope of work. Finding the best applicant to fit a company's position can be done by focusing on the core competencies of the job. This will ensure the potential applicant has the same values the company is looking for in their employment (Pette & Dempsey, 2020). The search can be quicker and more precise when focusing on a more narrow set of skills and personality traits. Those core competencies make the employee the right fit for a company to recruit and retain their talents in the organization.Recruitment and Retention      The spread of COVID-19 is making the application process more online than in-person. Recruitment has become more targeted through online methods to advertise jobs. This provides a more precise approach to finding the applicants the employer wants to hire (Kim & Scott, 2018). The job description can be specific on requirements to narrow the pool of applicants to precisely what the company needs. The author focuses on how the extensive collection of applicants can be advantageous when seeking a specific type of candidate. The company must realize the pool of talent available and aggressively target the right talent.      Talented individuals fall into different generations and have values aligning with their age group. Millennials make up most of today's workforce and value education, communication, and technology to be present in their careers (Bradbury, 2019). The more an employer can show these individuals they are trying to modernize and develop into a learning organization, the more competitive they will be in recruiting and retaining the workforce. The author shows how fighting change or not communicating the company's direction can be counterproductive to finding the right type of talent for their business model. The companies looking to hire must know precisely what kind of person they want to hire.      Not all companies need to hire a recent college graduate for every position. Some employers have found targeting marginalized populations can be a beneficial way to supplement their workforce. There are advantages to hiring an older adult who is only looking to work part-time or return to the force after taking a break from employment—also, broadening the focus on a specific degree and looking for degrees with some of the same core competencies as the position that needs to be filled (Williams, 2023). The author shows that a diverse workforce with different backgrounds and education levels can benefit employers. Not every competency a company needs always relates to college education alone. The employer must be able to assess the organization to know what is missing.      The more employers interact with and assess their employees, the more they can understand what is needed to improve the organization. When employers engage their employees, the retention of those employees is increased by leveraging a few specific incentives. Companies that publicly recognize employees' achievements and provide small fringe benefits retain more staff than companies that use primarily financial incentives (Williams, 2023). The author acknowledges today's workforce is concerned with more than monetary compensation. Many of the crew want their contributions recognized by superiors or peers. The engagement of employers with their employees allows them to assess the area's the individuals can be developed to achieve superior results.Development      The employee's development is beneficial to both the employer and the employee. Employers are evolving, taking entry-level employees and rotating them through three aspects of their company to find the right fit. This builds trust by allowing new employees to network and gain a shared understanding of how the company operates (Hoffman et al., 2014). The author gives an example of one way to develop new employees at a company. The results from this approach show that networking and shared understanding are valuable in the workplace. The employer can take steps early to develop the employee to contribute significantly to the company.      The more employers emphasize the development of new employees can form a positive environment for growth. The millennials that move into management roles typically been developed within the company and promote their experience through social media (Fantom, 2021). The author shows how developing personnel correctly can make them an ambassador of the company at all levels. The more free advertisement a company can get from trusted sources to the potential applicants gives the company a strong advantage in the market. To achieve this effect, developing each employee is critical to the organization's success.      Ensuring employees develop to their full potential requires different approaches depending on what the employee wants to accomplish. There may be some personnel that is only concerned with direct compensation incentives. Today's growing workforce is more interested in the organization's goals, advancement opportunities, or the people and type of work they deal with daily (Pette & Dempsey, 2020). The author's insight into today's workforce shows a shift in the priorities of the employees. When companies are aware of the motivations of their employees, they can better incentivize them to develop to their maximum potential. When the workforce is diverse, each individual can show their strengths as a part of the company's overall capability.Diversity Perspective      The positive effects of employing a diverse workforce are well-known in corporate America. Targeted recruitment of males into the nursing field or women into law enforcement are common ways organizations have tried to diversify their workforce (Webster et al., 2020). It is easy to see when an organization has no women or men on staff in their place of business at one given time. When you start taking in all the factors that make up a diverse workforce, there is a much harder distinction to make. This is why companies work so hard to hire and retain the right diverse individuals.      A diverse company becomes more versatile by having a more rounded world perspective from several viewpoints. Diversity refers to the inclusion of people from all races, cultures, ethnicities, and abilities to contribute in their own way to the company's overall goals (Biden, 2021). Every company wants to perform its responsibilities better than they are currently. The more they can include diverse experiences, will increase their ability to find ways of achieving those goals. The federal government is very aware of the need to diversify its workforce.      The businesses that work in the international arena see how the United States government can influence the global economy.  President Biden's executive order from his first day in office attempts to make the federal government the model for diversity (Biden, 2021). He emphasizes the importance of building diverse teams by showing that the government is implementing it in recruiting and retaining talent. By making this executive order, the government is strengthening its ability to overcome organizational challenges. Ethical leadership is critical to the company's success when diversifying the workforce.Ethical Perspective      The US government leadership is always under scrutiny for scandals that have ethical implications. The 2014 Veterans Affairs scandal over employees' falsifying wait times resulted in the death of several patients, leading to the resignation of VA Secretary Eric Shinseki and the firing of nearly 900 employees (Jeon & Kwon, 2021). As a leader, his inability to ensure the organization was ethically servicing its patients led to the death of some of the nation's veteran population. This is an extreme case of ethical misconduct from a longstanding culture in the organization. No organization wants to lose public favor or trust over ethical issues.      The employees are the first to notice ethical issues in their organization. Ethics is a significant factor in the turnover companies face now and in recent years (Jeon & Kwon, 2021). The employees in today's job market understand how competitive their career fields have become and can find new employment if necessary. Companies that want to be competitive in hiring and retaining the right individuals must ensure their organization has strong ethics. Employers must have their employees' and customers' best interests at heart to successfully recruit and retain talent post-COVID.      The current climate since COVID is making people more aware of how important what they do is to society. Studies show the primary variable in employees' choosing to stay with their current employer is an ethical work environment (Jeon & Kwon, 2021). The days of employees staying at one employer for their career are over. They want to be part of an organization that does things ethically so they feel good about what they do for a living. Ethical organizations will grow faster and more robust because they can recruit and retain the best individuals in their field.Synthesis      This solution proposal focuses on how the COVID-19 pandemic changes businesses' operations, leading to a change in their workforce. The recruiting and retention strategies must be reevaluated to attract and retain talented employees. Employers must evolve to meet the changing workforce expectations to be relevant. Increased competition for talented employees requires businesses to be proactive in their recruiting and retention. The more companies focus on diversity and inclusion can give them the edge in finding the top talent in underrepresented groups. Employers can be more flexible to make their workplace more appealing to talented employees.Flexibility      The pandemic has shown that remote work is possible and can be highly effective with the correct supervision. Employees want to be able to choose when and where they will do their work, and the supervisor must support their decisions to build trust (Reisinger & Fetterer, 2021). Businesses emphasizing flexibility and remote work options are more likely to attract and retain top talent. The employees capable of handling these freedoms are not likely to seek or accept employment elsewhere if flexibility is not part of the job. Alternative work schedules help improve the employee's well-being which is worth more than money to some people.Well-being      The pandemic has highlighted the importance of employee well-being. Employers that listen to their employee's concerns build trust with the millennial workforce resulting in better work performance and job satisfaction (Fantom, 2021). Businesses prioritizing employee well-being are more likely to attract and retain top talent. When employers build trust by considering the team members' points of view, a positive work culture begins to develop. While employers consider these alternative ways of thinking, they can see development opportunities to fit that employee's strengths.Professional Development      Top talent is looking for opportunities to grow and develop professionally. Every workforce member has something to contribute if companies take the time to develop and assess their employees properly (Bradbury, 2019). The employer should know how advantageous it is to develop internal talent and seek to find those individuals within their organization. As employees grow and develop, they will contribute to the organization's positive work culture. Many companies need help finding diverse professionals to bring into their organizations later in their careers.      Many veterans have held high-level management positions that can positively affect an organization. These veterans are looking for employers that will help them bridge their skills into a civilian organization through a development program (Hunter et al., 2020). Organizations could gain a very experienced employee with experience in a diverse and ethical organization by focusing on these applicants. The employer must take into account all the applicant's experience to see how their organization will benefit from developing their employees. When an organization can foster a positive culture for an extended period, recruitment and retention will be much easier in the post-COVID-19 era.Conclusion      The post-COVID age is causing businesses to transform how talented individuals are recruited and retained. The literature review highlights three key areas companies must address regarding recruitment and retention. Finding suitable applicants to meet their current requirements with a much larger pool to filter out. The recruitment strategy for finding target groups can only be successful if the employer understands the audience's motivations and desires. Once the individuals are brought into the organization, the employer must have a clear and structured path to develop and grow those personnel.      The workforce is made stronger when it is diverse in backgrounds, cultures, and abilities to give perspective when faced with complex problems. Ethical leaders are essential to building and maintaining a diverse workforce that trusts the organization's values. The more professional development opportunities a company can provide will put them ahead of the competition in recruiting and retaining the right talent in the current market.
ReferencesBiden, J. R., JR. (2021). Executive order on diversity, equity, inclusion, and accessibility in the federal workforce. Academic Questions, 34(3), 165–177. https://doi.org/https://web-p-ebscohost-com.vlib.excelsior.edu/ehost/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?vid=3&sid=78b66804-fa29-4b61-a338-66b95391486d%40redisBradbury, W. (2019). Understanding, working with & retaining young professionals. Professional Safety, 64(7), 14–16. https://doi.org/https://web-s-ebscohost-com.vlib.excelsior.edu/ehost/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?vid=4&sid=0af9c2f2-7234-4b36-a417-399394b7bda6%40redisCleland, J., Chu, J., Lim, S., Low, J., Low-Beer, N., & Kwek, T. (2020). COVID 19: Designing and conducting an online mini-multiple interview(MMI) in a dynamic landscape. Medical Teacher, 42(7), 776–780. https://doi.org/https://web-s-ebscohost-com.vlib.excelsior.edu/ehost/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?vid=14&sid=665bd616-e51e-4602-b384-fd591652b90d%40redisFantom, L. (2021). Inside the minds of millennials: Takeaways on recruiting and retention from two talent experts. Aquaculture North America, 22(3), 22–23. https://doi.org/https://web-p-ebscohost-com.vlib.excelsior.edu/ehost/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?vid=3&sid=7ad65f8a-c781-4c31-9499-4bbf5bde1c85%40redisHoffman, R., Casnocha, B., & Yeh, C. (2014). The alliance: managing talent in the networked age. Harvard Business Review Press. https://doi.org/HD58.8 .H6444 2014Hunter, J., Niu, Y., Smith, S., Whitaker, B., Wells, R., & Charkasova, A. (2020). The veteran employees: Recruitment, career development, engagement, and job satisfaction of veterans transitioning to the civilian workforce. New Directions for Adult & Continuing Education, 2020(166), 139–150. https://doi.org/https://web-p-ebscohost-com.vlib.excelsior.edu/ehost/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?vid=3&sid=d0efea7f-924f-45c3-9b31-2fedce53c4f8%40redisJeon, S. H., & Kwon, M. (2021). Ethical work environment and career decisions: Is this relationship moderated by a position of power? Ethics & Behavior, 31(8), 557–574. https://doi.org/https://web-s-ebscohost-com.vlib.excelsior.edu/ehost/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?vid=13&sid=91a03714-066a-44ad-a60b-f84e5b33f5f9%40redisKim, P. T., & Scott, S. (2018). Discrimination in online employment recruiting. St Louis University Law Journal, 63(1), 93–118. https://doi.org/https://web-s-ebscohost-com.vlib.excelsior.edu/ehost/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?vid=6&sid=1665a60e-a4ab-4aee-bbee-443e96bf6883%40redisPette, S., & Dempsey, M. (2020). CJCA toolkit: Recruiting, hiring and retaining qualified staff. Corrections Today, 82(1), 12–18. https://doi.org/https://web-s-ebscohost-com.vlib.excelsior.edu/ehost/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?vid=3&sid=1f6a03db-d606-438a-b50c-3c3fe943f13f%40redisReisinger, H., & Fetterer, D. (2021, October 29). Forget flexibility. your employees want autonomy. Harvard Business Review. https://hbr.org/2021/10/forget-flexibility-your-employees-want-autonomyRoulin, N., & Krings, F. (2016). When winning is everything: The relationship between competitive worldviews and job applicant faking. Applied Psychology: An International Review, 65(4), 643–670. https://doi.org/https://web-s-ebscohost-com.vlib.excelsior.edu/ehost/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?vid=3&sid=c42eae2b-aa53-4f4c-968f-5630d2305473%40redisWebster, B. D., Smith, A. N., Kim, J., Watkins, M. B., & Edwards, B. D. (2020). Recruiting (dis)advantage: Men’s versus women’s evaluations of gender-based targeted recruitment. Sex Roles, 83(11/12), 706–721. https://doi.org/https://web-s-ebscohost-com.vlib.excelsior.edu/ehost/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?vid=3&sid=3d2a8d40-21d5-439a-8ac8-dda7ee8d0f09%40redisWilliams, A. (2023). Recruiting and engaging your workforce. Parks & Recreation, 58(1), 26–27. https://doi.org/https://web-p-ebscohost-com.vlib.excelsior.edu/ehost/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?vid=6&sid=02c8dc78-f7bf-4523-a4d1-1071061bdaad%40redis	13Click or tap here to enter text.	1