Leadership Strategies for Overcoming Recruitment Challenges in the U.S. Army: A Focus on Leader-Member Exchange and Goal-Setting TheoryMSG Cole HamiltonSergeants Major CourseClass 73SGM Menendez and Mr. HouckMay 5, 2023
Leadership Strategies for Overcoming Recruitment Challenges in the U.S. Army: A Focus on Leader-Member Exchange and Goal-Setting Theory      The United States Army Recruiting Command (USAREC) was shocked when the COVID-19 pandemic sent everyone into a virtual environment, and public places closed their doors. Recruiters were faced with adapting to a virtual strategy and abandoning their long-standing traditional face-to-face prospecting in schools, colleges, and public venues. After two years of failing to achieve mission success and attempting to adapt to the virtual strategy, the world began returning to normal. Recruiters were challenged to re-learn how to engage their target market. Recruiters faced difficulties working together as a team in the office and the public arena and how to make up for two years of mission failures between 2020 and 2022. Leaders in USAREC must focus their efforts on re-developing team tactics and implementing challenging yet achievable goals if they intend to be successful (Anand et al., 2018; Locke & Latham, 2019).       USAREC cannot afford to continue mission failure at the rate it has done so. In 2022, USAREC missed its recruiting goal by 15,000 Soldiers, or about 25% of what the command needed to provide to the U.S. Army. The two years prior were not successful either; however, 2022 was the command’s worst recruiting year since its implementation in the 1970s (Lee, 2022). The problem with USAREC not achieving its recruiting goals and attracting the best qualified and most talented personnel to the U.S. Army is that it impacts the force’s ability to deploy, engage, and destroy the enemy to which they are called. The U.S. Army will begin depending more heavily on the component’s reserve forces in order to achieve mission readiness and combat effectiveness (Lee, 2022); however, the Guard and Reserve forces were never meant to be a long-term solution (Department of Veterans Affairs, 2015). On top of that, they are drawing down after the most prolonged mobilization period in history with Operations Enduring and Iraqi Freedom and New Dawn (Department of Veterans Affairs, 2015). Organizational leaders must leverage the leader-member exchange theory and effective goal-setting within their organizations in order to attract and maintain the best-qualified staff and gain a competitive advantage in rapidly developing markets. Literature Review      Leadership is a critical factor in an organization’s ability to operate efficiently. A leader's primary objective is to inspire and motivate subordinates to perform at their best and contribute to attaining organizational objectives (Department of the Army, 2019). Leaders must develop empowering relationships between them and their subordinates in order to operate effectively in the recruiting career field. The COVID-19 pandemic has disrupted traditional recruiting methods and has made it difficult for recruiters to engage with their target market. As leaders continue to re-establish best practices and methods for success, the relationship and level of trust between supervisors and subordinates will be a critical factor in whether an organization succeeds. Leaders of USAREC must develop a work environment that fosters teamwork and collaboration while synchronously using difficult but attainable goals to drive productivity and achieve mission success. 	Leader-Member Exchange Theory      The leader-member exchange is a critical element for success within USAREC. The leader-member exchange (LMX) is a crucial indicator of how well leaders and members of an organization operate together (Graen & Uhl-Bien, 1995). Organizations that have high-functioning LMXs, also referred to as HXRs, see direct positive results, such as respect, trustworthiness, and mutual affect (Mahsud et al., 2010). Army doctrine dictates that Army leaders must provide purpose, direction, and motivation to influence Soldiers to work together and achieve a common goal (Department of the Army, 2019). HXRs are high-performing relationships between a leader and a follower that exhibit high levels of performance and efficiency (Hunt, 2014). The HXR is a dyadic relationship, which indicates that the follower and leader think, operate, and execute tasks synchronously in a high-performance relationship (Bernasconi, 2019). LMX theory is based on the connection and two-way communication between leaders and followers.      Alternatively, low exchange relationships can be problematic for organizations relying on leader-member engagement and influence. Effective use of LMXs builds effective citizenship behaviors and culture within an organization that strives to achieve a common goal (Mahsud et al., 2010). When LMX relationships are low, Soldiers are likely to display signs of employee disengagement and operate with ideals counterproductive to the organization’s mission (Mahsud et al., 2010). Employee disengagement can destroy an organization’s culture and is the practice of completing tasks with a lack of interest and minimal output (Pech & Slade, 2006). Disengagement has been connected to a lack of psychological connection to one’s work or organization. HXRs ensure leaders and members share a common goal and operating picture that aligns with an organization’s mission and can ultimately deter disengagement from ever occurring. Furthermore, leveraging HXRs and defining clear, difficult-but-attainable, and meaningful goals will ensure LMXs thrive with high efficiency and give employees a greater sense of purpose (Mueller & Lee, 2002).Goal-Setting Theory	Goal-setting theory is a proven method that uses difficult-yet-attainable goals to drive organizational performance and productivity (Locke, 1968). Initially founded in 1968, Edwin Locke determined that challenging goals led to high productivity as opposed to easy goals, goals must be specific and the end state clear, and positive behaviors can be influenced by employee engagement levels (Hamilton, 2021; Locke, 1968). USAREC can leverage these principles as it focuses on re-establishing a baseline for what success looks like for an average recruiter. It would be unreasonable to ask recruiters to achieve the 2023 annual mission plus deficits from 2020, 2021, and 2022; however, once the bar for challenging but achievable has been set, goal-setting theory can be leveraged to drive greater productivity.	Locke’s theory for goal-setting is further governed by moderators, which guide the above principles and ensure goals are set as effectively as possible to drive productivity within an organization. The moderators for effective goal-setting are:1. Ability: Ability refers to a person or organization’s level of efficiency at a task or set of tasks (Latham & Locke, 2018). As mentioned, asking USAREC to achieve the current year’s mission and the deficits from the last three years would not be reasonable. Having unrealistic expectations that exceed one’s abilities will be detrimental to an employee’s motivation to achieve the goal (Latham & Locke, 2018).2. Commitment: Commitment refers to an employee or organization's passion and enthusiasm for achieving a goal (Latham & Locke, 2018). Recruiters who are not committed to the organization’s mission will not be driven by the desire to work towards achieving a unified end state. 3. Feedback: Employee feedback would give recruiters the tools they need to succeed and make adjustments as needed. It would also give recruiters the confidence required to achieve challenging but achievable goals (Latham & Locke, 2018).4. Situational Constraints: Situational constraints relate to the operational environment and external influences on employees or organizations (Latham & Locke, 2018). An excellent example of this was the COVID-19 pandemic, which brought recruiting to an immediate halt and set in motion a series of events that would slow recruiting down drastically. USAREC could no longer operate under the status quo and had to change its operational procedures in a matter of days due to school and public location closures.      The review of literature has identified leadership and its elements like Leader-Member Exchange (LMX) and Goal-Setting theory as crucial determinants of an organization's success, especially as USAREC continues navigating the post-COVID-19 era. High exchange relationships, characterized by respect, trustworthiness, and mutual affect, boost organizational performance. These theories, coupled with goal-setting, effectively drive productivity by fostering commitment and providing clear, challenging, but attainable goals. However, as we transition into exploring diversity and ethics in USAREC, it is essential to highlight the need for inclusive leadership that recognizes the diverse backgrounds of Soldiers and the necessity to adhere to ethical practices. These practices would ensure equity and foster a culture of inclusivity while mitigating risks such as in-group favoritism and burnout from unrealistic goals.Diversity	USAREC must also address diversity and equity within its formations as they continue navigating the COVID-19 pandemic and other economic and social issues. The U.S. Army is an incredibly diverse organization that is representative of the U.S. population and captures people from all races, ethnicities, religions, and other groups. Recruiting efforts must keep this critical idea in mind as they focus on the diversity and inclusion of people from all walks of life. USAREC has made significant improvements toward diversity and inclusivity, with one recent example being highlighted by BG Daphne Davis, the Deputy Commanding General of USAREC. BG Davis has given the command guidance to shift the messaging and perspective of the Army Reserve as an option for those who want to stay close to home while still receiving the benefits and serving their countries (Lacdan, 2022). 	One method for USAREC to incorporate diversity into the leader-member exchange theory is to focus on the individual relationships leaders, peers, and subordinates develop with one another. Understanding Soldiers’ backgrounds and the cultures in which they were raised can give valuable insights into which leadership methods will be the most effective. For example, Soldiers from a collectivistic culture and upbringing may respond better to the elements associated with relationship-based leadership, just as Soldiers from individualistic cultures most likely respond well to task-focused and directive approach leadership styles (Graen & Uhl-Bien, 1995). Along with the importance of understanding the cultural perspectives of subordinates and creating an inclusive environment, USAREC must also consider ethical implications when addressing diversity and equity within its formations.Ethical Implications	USAREC must also understand the ethical implications of implementing a more relationship-based leadership approach and focusing on goal setting to achieve mission requirements. Implementing a more relationship-based leadership approach and setting challenging but attainable goals can have positive and negative ethical implications. On the one hand, building solid and high-quality relationships with subordinates can lead to increased loyalty, trust, and commitment to the organization and its mission. These relationships can help create a sense of belonging and purpose that motivates Soldiers (Graen & Uhl-Bien, 1995). Additionally, challenging but attainable goals can help employees feel more fulfilled and engaged in their work, leading to higher job satisfaction and performance (Locke & Latham, 2019).	There are also potential negative ethical implications to consider. One of the most significant concerns is the potential for in-group favoritism, which occurs when leaders develop closer relationships with subordinates over others, leading to unfair treatment and bias (Mahsud et al., 2010). This can create resentment and lead to a toxic work environment, ultimately harming the organization's mission. Additionally, setting challenging goals can motivate, but unrealistic or unattainable goals can demotivate and lead to burnout, stress, and even unethical behavior as employees try to meet impossible standards (Latham & Locke, 2018).	USAREC has a crucial social responsibility to the communities and citizens it serves. As the face of the military in America, Army recruiters must uphold the highest ethical standards and ensure that their actions align with the organization's values and missions. This entails recruiters aligning their mission and values to ensure that their actions, behaviors, and all recruiting efforts are inclusive, equitable, and fair to all subjects of recruiting efforts, irrespective of their background, culture, race, ethnicity, or any other category (Department of the Army, 2019). By maintaining ethical, diversity, and inclusion practices, USAREC can build and maintain the trust of the U.S. population it serves.Proposed Solution	To address recruitment challenges and improve enlistment numbers, effective leadership strategies and a holistic understanding of the organization’s social responsibilities and impact on their communities are crucial for USAREC. A comprehensive leadership approach incorporating the leader-member exchange theory and effective goal-setting can help the organization achieve its mission. The leader-member exchange theory and goal-setting theory, rooted in the literature review, highlight the importance of fostering positive, high-performing relationships and setting realistic yet challenging goals (Graen & Uhl-Bien, 1995; Latham & Locke, 2018). Leveraging these theories can directly contribute to enhanced productivity and organizational culture, positioning USAREC to achieve its mission.	USAREC must also prioritize diversity and ethics in its leadership practices. A relationship-based leadership approach, as found in the leader-member exchange theory, can yield positive ethical implications such as increased loyalty, trust, and commitment to the organization and its mission (Mahsud et al., 2010). The diverse makeup of the US Army mirrors the broad spectrum of cultural backgrounds present in the U.S. population. Recognizing and incorporating this diversity into leadership practices within USAREC is not merely a strategic imperative; it is an ethical obligation that enhances the organization's credibility and promotes inclusivity. Upholding the highest ethical standards and ensuring actions align with the organization's values can build and maintain trust with the U.S. population it serves. By understanding and respecting the diverse backgrounds of their subordinates, leaders can foster high-quality relationships that resonate with everyone’s unique experiences and perspectives (Graen & Uhl-Bien, 1995). This individualized approach can reinforce the leader-member exchange, creating a more inclusive and engaging environment.	Additionally, an ethical lens on leadership practices and goal-setting safeguards against potential pitfalls. While high-performing relationships can foster trust, loyalty, and commitment, they must be managed ethically to avoid issues like in-group favoritism that can fracture team cohesion (Chaput, 2012). Similarly, goal-setting must be balanced between ambition and realism to avoid promoting a culture of burnout or ethical compromises (AppAbodes, 2023). Upholding the highest ethical standards aligns the actions of USAREC with its values, strengthening its relationship with the U.S. population it serves.      Overcoming the recruitment challenges in USAREC demands a comprehensive leadership approach that acknowledges the interplay between leader-member exchange theory, effective goal-setting, diversity, and ethics. By consciously integrating these elements into its leadership strategies, USAREC can enhance its operational effectiveness and promote a culture of inclusivity, ethical behavior, and shared commitment to its mission. This multifaceted approach will ensure that USAREC attracts and retains the best-qualified personnel, providing it with a competitive edge in an increasingly complex and diverse recruiting landscape.Conclusion      Organizational leaders must leverage the leader-member exchange theory and effective goal-setting to attract and maintain the best-qualified staff and gain a competitive advantage in rapidly developing markets. USAREC has faced unprecedented challenges in recent years, primarily due to the COVID-19 pandemic, which disrupted the organization's ability to execute typical recruiting operations and contributed to mission failures. As USAREC looks to overcome these challenges, leaders within the organization must embrace effective leadership strategies by focusing on the leader-member exchange theory and the effective use of the goal-setting theory. By fostering high-performing relationships between leaders and followers and setting challenging yet achievable recruiting goals for recruiters throughout the force, USAREC can drive productivity, increase team dynamics, and achieve its mission.       Furthermore, prioritizing diversity, equity, and ethical practices will ensure that USAREC attracts and retains the best-qualified personnel to be critical members of the team. Equipping USAREC with the best-qualified staff will breed a competitive edge and enhance mission readiness within the organization. Implementing these strategies will assist USAREC in regaining lost ground in the foreseeable future and create a more inclusive, resilient, and effective force for future generations of recruiters.
ReferencesAnand, S., Hu, J., Vidyarthi, P., & Liden, R. (2018). Leader-member exchange as a linking pin in the idiosyncratic deals - performance relationship in workgroups. The Leadership Quarterly, 29(6), 698–708. https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1048984318301073AppAbodes. (2023, February 28). Balancing ambition and realistic goal-setting: Strategies for success. https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/balancing-ambition-realistic-goal-setting-strategies-success/Bernasconi, F. (2019, October 26). The dyadic relationship between leaders and followers. https://sites.psu.edu/leadership/2019/10/26/the-dyadic-relationship-between-leaders-and-followers/Chaput, April. (2012). The Impact of the Use of Favoritism on Work Groups. Seminar Research Paper Series. Paper 36. https://digitalcommons.uri.edu/lrc_paper_series/36 Department of the Army. (2019). Army leadership (ADP 6-22). https://armypubs.army.mil/epubs/DR_pubs/DR_a/ARN20039-ADP_6-22-001-WEB-0.pdfDepartment of Veterans Affairs. (2015, September 8). Va.gov. Active Duty vs. Reserve or National Guard. https://www.va.gov/vetsinworkplace/docs/em_activeReserve.aspGraen, G. B., & Uhl-Bien, M. (1995). Relationship-based approach to leadership: Development of leader-member exchange (LMX) theory of leadership over 25 years: Applying a multi-level multi-domain perspective. The Leadership Quarterly, 6(2), 219–247. https://doi.org/10.1016/1048-9843(95)90036-5Hamilton, C. (2021). A phenomenological study of positive and effective leadership’s influence on success in Iowa army recruiting companies [Dissertation Manuscript]. https://www.proquest.com/openview/88ab882680126c94c75a2715427ebcc8/1.pdf?pq-origsite=gscholar%26cbl=18750&diss=yHunt, T. J. (2014). Leader-member exchange relationships in health information management. Perspectives in health information management, 11(Spring), 1d. https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/24808805/Lacdan, J. (2022, March 14). Usarec outlines measures to increase inclusivity in recruiting. www.army.mil. https://www.army.mil/article/254672/usarec_outlines_measures_to_increase_inclusivity_in_recruitingLatham, G., & Locke, E. (2018). The SAGE handbook of industrial, work, & organizational psychology. SAGE Publications.Lee, M. (2022, October 2). Army misses recruiting goals while other branches fall behind for next year. Fox News. https://www.foxnews.com/us/army-misses-recruiting-goals-while-other-branches-fall-behind-next-yearLocke, E. (1968). Toward a theory of task motivation and incentives. Organizational Behavior and Human Performance, 3(2). https://psycnet.apa.org/record/1968-11263-001Locke, E., & Latham, G. (2019). The development of goal setting theory: A half-century retrospective. Motivation Science, 5(2), 93–105. https://doi.org/10.1037/mot0000127Mahsud, R., Yukl, G., & Prussia, G. (2010). Leader empathy, ethical leadership, and relations?oriented behaviors as antecedents of leader?member exchange quality. Journal of Managerial Psychology, 25(6), 561–577. https://doi.org/10.1108/02683941011056932Mueller, B. H., & Lee, J. (2002). Leader-member exchange and organizational communication satisfaction in multiple contexts. Journal of Business Communication, 39(2), 220–244. https://doi.org/10.1177/002194360203900204Pech, R., & Slade, B. (2006). Employee disengagement: Is there evidence of a growing problem? Handbook of Business Strategy, 7(1), 21–25. https://doi.org/10.1108/10775730610618585Robotham, D. (2020, December 9). Employee disengagement and the impact of leadership. Penn State University. https://extension.psu.edu/employee-disengagement-and-the-impact-of-leadership             	12Click or tap here to enter text.	1