Retention and Recruitment of Cyber EmployeesJames HooverSergeants Major AcademyClass 73SGM Wendy Menendez and Mr. John HouckMay 22, 2023
Retention and Recruitment of Cyber Employees      Attracting and retaining qualified cyber employees is difficult in today's cyber landscape. In 2018, an estimated 3 million global cyber staff shortages reportedly increased to 4 million in 2019 (Foo, 2021). While there was no attempt to produce estimates regarding how the 2020 COVID environment would affect the growing need, evidence suggested a negative impact due to the remote environment it forced (Brighton, 2020). Remote work has become more prevalent as cyber professionals can collaborate and work virtually (Brighton, 2020). While this change to remote work was a definite benefit for employees, it significantly challenged companies' security posture and employee retention (Brighton, 2020). With the increased cyber security threat and employee disengagement, employers and their human resource departments will have a more difficult time connecting the company vision to the needs of employees. To grow a loyal, highly trained cyber employee base, employers must adjust recruitment strategies and focus resources on different departments to retain personnel constantly poached with better-paying jobs. How do leaders utilize private sector pay and benefits to retain highly trained employees in today's cyber environment?Literature Review      Cybersecurity is a critical component in today's increasingly digital world, as cyber threats and attacks pose significant challenges to organizations of all sizes. However, the need for more skilled cybersecurity professionals has made it difficult for companies to effectively protect their systems and data. This literature review assesses cybersecurity recruitment and retention, including the challenges and best practices for attracting and retaining top talent. Additional analysis of the pre-COVID and post-COVID environment will provide awareness of the changes to the workforce and employee-employer relationship. By analyzing the existing research and studies, this review will provide insights into the factors affecting the cybersecurity workforce and suggest strategies for improving the recruitment and retention of qualified cybersecurity professionals.Experimental Work Arrangements      The research by Vyas (2022) provides insight into the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic and how it disrupted the labor market, resulting in sudden and widespread experimentation with flexible work arrangements and new ways of centralizing work. The innovative approaches provided a foundation for a new normal, which will likely continue into the post-pandemic era of work organization. The shift towards flexible work arrangements has challenged traditional employer-employee relationships, working hours, work-life balance, and individuals' relationships with work (Vyas, 2022). This literature review explores how the pandemic has impacted the labor market, specifically focusing on manual and non-manual work and the future of work-life balance. The study argues that hybrid and remote working will likely become more common in the post-pandemic era for non-manual work, but it will not be a one-size-fits-all solution. Traditional work practices will persist, and offices will remain relevant.      On the other hand, manual labor will continue with increased demands. Employers' concern for their employees' work-life balance as the new standard will target their motivation and aim to improve their work-life balance (Vyas, 2022). The study by Vyas (2022) will provide data on the pre-COVID and post-COVID work environment and lend data toward new benefits as the employee sees them, such as working remotely and improved work-life balance. Recruitment and Retention      A review of the doctoral dissertation by Foo (2021) focuses on the management of cybersecurity by governmental organizations, specifically the cyber workforce, to attract new personnel, retain current employees, and improve employee retention. Foo (2021) surveyed supporting nations of the NATO Cooperative Cyber Defence Center of Excellence (CCDCOE) to gain insight into the challenge military or related organizations face in ensuring the required cyber competencies. The study explores the public sector's difficulties in meeting the high demand for a cybersecurity workforce, and it investigates using quantitative and qualitative measures to attract and retain adequate personnel. The paper also examines the availability of policies for employee retention and identifies best practices to prevent a potential shortage in the cybersecurity workforce. The survey results highlighted the importance of perceived desirability and ease of movement as critical factors influencing the cybersecurity workforce. The paper presents a table summarizing these factors as a valuable tool for nations to identify areas for improvement in recruitment and retention efforts and information to share among organizations and nations regarding the cyber workforce (Foo, 2021).      Orye & Faith-Ell's (2020) study examines how governmental organizations manage their required level of cybersecurity and the available cybersecurity workforce. It considers the cyber force from the standpoint of attracting new personnel through internal and external recruitment, retaining current employees, and improving employee retention. Orye & Faith-Ell (2020) surveyed supporting nations of the CCDCOE to assess the difficulty and criticality of military or related organizations in ensuring their required capacity in specific cyber competencies and to identify best practices. Additionally, the study highlights the challenges the public sector faces in meeting the high demand for a cybersecurity workforce by analyzing military organizations' use of quantitative and qualitative measures to attract and retain an effective force.      Furthermore, it evaluates the availability of policies for employee retention and provides best practices to avoid potential workforce shortages. The survey results revealed that perceived desirability and ease of movement influence the cybersecurity workforce. The study also provides a table summarizing the factors and proves a valuable tool for evaluating recruitment and retention efforts and additional areas of improvement. The main emphasis of this study is the job factors considered most critical by cybersecurity professionals and the use of the table tool for organizations to recruit and retain cybersecurity personnel. (Orye & Faith-Ell, 2020).      The utilization of both studies will highlight the main factors companies have identified that maximize retention. Additionally, the tables will highlight areas of improvement and best practices for recruiting new talent to prove what factors cause employees to remain. Literature Review Summary      The studies outlined the changes in work environments and a shift towards flexible work arrangements for those outside of manual labor careers. These changes have caused employers to take a hard look at the work-life balance of their employees as it has become the new standard and has increased motivation and retention. The studies on recruitment and retention provide quantitative data that highlight main factors, best practices, and areas of improvement for employers across the CCDCOE to assist in retaining the best-qualified employees and recruiting new talent. While the factors listed within these studies provide data on work schedules and retention efforts, a diversity and inclusion review is necessary to ensure employers continue to embrace these values to attract and retain a broader range of talented individuals and foster a positive, collaborative environment. Post-COVID Environment      Before the COVID-19 pandemic, the work environment was primarily on-premises, with in-house training programs and mentoring opportunities for employees to develop their skills and advance in their careers. Recruitment and hiring processes were also typically conducted in person, with job fairs and on-site interviews being the norm (Mayhew, n.d.). Overall, the pre-COVID-19 cyber-employee environment focused on in-person interactions and collaboration, emphasizing professional development and face-to-face communication.       The COVID-19 pandemic has drastically changed the cyber-employee environment. With the shift to remote work, there has been a greater emphasis on virtual communication and collaboration (Gaskell, 2022). This shift has required organizations to adjust their cybersecurity measures to protect remote employees and the data they access (Brighton, 2020). In terms of professional development and training, many organizations have shifted to virtual training programs, webinars, and online conferences to continue providing employees with the necessary skills and knowledge to stay current in the field (Wolor et al., 2020).       The shift to virtual training has also presented challenges, such as a need for more engagement and hands-on practice. Recruitment and hiring processes have also shifted to virtual environments, with video interviews and online assessments becoming the norm. In terms of employee engagement and retention, organizations have had to find new ways to maintain employee morale and engagement, such as virtual team-building activities, employee appreciation programs, and regular check-ins with employees. The post-COVID-19 cyber-employee environment focuses on virtual communication and collaboration, emphasizing remote work and cybersecurity measures to protect data and employees (Gaskell, 2022). The shift to remote work also introduces new challenges in recruitment and retention.Recruitment and Retention      Developing recruitment and retention programs is critical to a company's success. Programs like military recruitment will engage and get the attention of young, eager talent. By investing in high school and university cyber programs, companies can highlight their investment in their employees and attract talent early. To increase the company's visibility, companies can provide networking opportunities to help them develop relationships and connections within the industry. Employees who feel valued are excellent recruiting tools. Connecting with other industry members will further the company's reputation and bring over employees who may not feel valued in their current situation (Orye & Faith-Ell, 2020). While recruitment is necessary to bring talent to the company, retaining it in a field that is already struggling is another.      Retaining valued members requires a deliberate approach. By creating retention plans and conducting exit interviews and engagement surveys, leaders can understand employees' issues, identify the root cause of turnover rates, and make the necessary changes. Employees want to know that a company has their best interests at heart. Company leaders can show this through professional development opportunities, recognition, or engagement programs or by allowing employees to gain buy-in to the company by allowing them to lead their initiatives. Allowing employees to stay updated with industry trends, creating a positive environment through recognition, and giving them autonomy will make them feel valued and invested in the company's future (Orye & Faith-Ell, 2020). Investing early and often in employees is only one essential task in recruitment and retention. Providing members the ability to invest in their future through pay and benefits is also crucial to retention.Pay and Benefits      Companies must consider increasing their pay and benefits to retain trained and certified cybersecurity employees. One of the most significant benefits of the COVID-19 pandemic was the ability to remote work and flexible hours. By offering the ability for talented employees to work remotely, companies can incentivize job proficiency and skill building. Increasing employee skills and abilities is vital to employees as they want to feel valued and invested. By offering cyber certification programs, employees can obtain industry-recognized certifications to help them advance in their careers and increase their value to the organization. Finally, offering competitive compensation to employees with highly sought-after certifications and benefits packages will help attract and retain experts within the field (Orye & Faith-Ell, 2020).Diversity and Ethics in the Cyber Workforce[CBH1]      Diversity is an essential issue in recruiting and retaining the cyber workforce. A diverse workforce can unite individuals with different backgrounds, experiences, and perspectives, contributing to more comprehensive and practical solutions to complex problems. This is particularly important in cybersecurity, where diverse perspectives can help identify potential vulnerabilities and threats that may not be immediately apparent to a homogenous team. Men, particularly white men, have historically dominated the cybersecurity field, resulting in the underrepresentation of women and minorities and a lack of diversity (Aspen digital, 2021). Impact on Vulnerable and Disenfranchised Groups      Policies, decisions, and actions that limit access to education and employment opportunities have historically impacted vulnerable and disenfranchised groups. This lack of access has resulted in the underrepresentation of these groups in the cybersecurity workforce. Historically, the technology sector, including cybersecurity, has underrepresented women. This lack of representation is partly due to the stereotype that technology and cybersecurity are male-dominated fields (Lingelbach, 2018). As a result, women may face barriers to entry, such as discrimination and bias, which can limit their opportunities for career advancement.      Additionally, cybersecurity has historically underrepresented minority groups, such as African Americans, Hispanics, and Native Americans. This underrepresentation is partly due to limited access to education and training opportunities. Minority groups may face systemic barriers, including discrimination and bias, that can limit their access to education and job opportunities (Allen, 2022). These barriers may discourage them from pursuing a career in cybersecurity or cause them to drop out of the field prematurely.Driving Policies, Decisions, and Actions with Ethics      The lack of diversity in the cybersecurity workforce is driven by policies, decisions, and actions often rooted in implicit bias, discrimination, and unequal access to education and training opportunities. The ethical principles that have driven these policies, decisions, and actions include the principles of distributive justice, fairness, and equal opportunity (Aspen digital, 2021). Distributive justice requires the distribution of resources and opportunities equitably, ensuring that all individuals have access to resources and opportunities necessary for success (Stanford encyclopedia of philosophy, 2017). Fairness requires equal treatment for all individuals, regardless of race, gender, ethnicity, or other personal characteristics. Equal opportunity requires that all individuals have an equal chance to succeed, regardless of their characteristics (Aspen digital, 2021).Addressing Ethics and Diversity in the Cyber Workforce      Diversity is a critical issue in the recruitment and retention of the cyber workforce. To address these critical issues, organizations can use several strategies to promote diversity in the cybersecurity workforce. One strategy is to increase access to education and training opportunities for underrepresented groups through apprenticeships, mentorship programs, and a commitment to subsidizing education and certifications (Aspen digital, 2021). This will create pathways for underrepresented groups to enter the cybersecurity field.      Additionally, organizations can provide diversity and ethical training for their employees to help them understand the importance of diversity and how to create an inclusive workplace. Finally, the solution to address biases and discrimination in the hiring process is to implement blind hiring practices, which remove identifying information from resumes and applications to eliminate bias (Patton, n.d.). The diversity and ethical issues only scratch the problem’s surface and highlight the need for further study.Recommendations for Further Study      Researchers need to conduct further studies to develop more equitable solutions for addressing the lack of diversity in the cybersecurity workforce. This could include research into the impact of different educational and training programs on underrepresented groups, the effectiveness of artificial intelligence (AI) hiring practices, and diversity and inclusion training. Furthermore, researchers should conduct additional research to identify the cultural and social norms that affect individuals' decisions to pursue a career in cybersecurity and explore ways to challenge and change these norms (Patton, n.d.).      Diversity is a critical issue in the recruitment and retention of the cybersecurity workforce. The historical underrepresentation of women and minority groups in cybersecurity is partly due to policies, decisions, and actions that limit access to education and employment opportunities, as well as implicit bias and discrimination (Aspen digital, 2021). Ethical principles such as distributive justice, fairness, and equal opportunity underlie the lack of diversity in the cybersecurity workforce. To address these issues, organizations can promote diversity by increasing access to education and training opportunities, implementing new hiring practices, and providing diversity and ethical training for employees (Aspen digital, 2021). Researchers need to conduct further studies to develop more equitable solutions and identify the cultural and social norms that affect individuals' decisions to pursue a career in cybersecurity. By addressing these issues and promoting diversity, organizations can create a more inclusive and equitable workplace culture, ultimately leading to better outcomes and more successful organizations.Synthesis	Leaders in today's cyberspace arena face employees who view the workplace differently than four years ago. The COVID-19 pandemic has led to significant changes in the cyber-employee environment, with a greater emphasis on virtual communication and collaboration (Wolor et al., 2020). The shift to remote work has presented challenges in employee engagement, professional development, and recruitment, making it necessary for organizations to adopt new strategies to address these issues. Recruiting and retaining qualified cybersecurity professionals are critical for effectively protecting organizational systems and data. Companies offering cybersecurity certification programs, professional development opportunities, competitive compensation and benefits packages, employee recognition and engagement programs, or employee mentoring and networking opportunities will have better luck attracting and retaining top talent.       Another critical issue companies need to face is the lack of diversity in the cybersecurity workforce, and they can do so by promoting inclusive and equitable workplace culture. Increasing access to education and training opportunities, implementing blind hiring practices, providing diversity and ethical training for employees, and conducting further research to develop more equitable solutions are strategies that promote diversity in the cybersecurity workforce. By addressing these issues and promoting diversity, organizations can create a more inclusive and equitable workplace culture, ultimately leading to better outcomes and more successful organizations. Further research is necessary to identify the cultural and social norms that affect individuals' decisions to pursue a career in cybersecurity and explore ways to challenge and change these norms.Conclusion      In conclusion, the COVID-19 pandemic has significantly transformed the cyber-employee environment, shifting it to remote work settings and increasing the importance of virtual communication and collaboration. Organizations have had to adjust their cybersecurity measures to protect remote employees and data. Recruitment and retention strategies should focus on engaging young talent, providing professional development opportunities, and offering competitive pay and benefits. Diversity plays a crucial role in the cyber workforce. Companies must enhance access to education and training, implement blind hiring practices, and promote diversity and ethical training. Further research is needed to develop equitable solutions for diversity and investigate the impact of various strategies. Organizations can create a more inclusive and prosperous cybersecurity workforce by actively addressing these issues and promoting diversity.
ReferencesAllen, B. (2022, September 30). Minorities and the cybersecurity skills gap. Forbes. https://www.forbes.com/sites/forbestechcouncil/2022/09/30/minorities-and-the-cybersecurity-skills-gap/?sh=2233edb77f3fAspen digital. (2021, September). Diversity, equity and inclusion in cybersecurity. Aspen institute. https://www.aspeninstitute.org/wp-content/uploads/2021/09/Diversity-Equity-and-Inclusion-in-Cybersecurity_9.921.pdfBrighton, E. (2020, October 2). Covid-19 and cybersecurity staffing shortages. Infosecurity Magazine. https://www.infosecurity-magazine.com/blogs/covid19-cybersecurity-staffing/Foo, A. (2021). How can employee retention be improved? a quantitative study of cybersecurity professionals (28962664) [Doctoral dissertation, California Southern University]. ProQuest. https://www.proquest.com/pagepdf/2636370410?accountid=137164Gaskell, A. (2022, March 2). The cybersecurity challenges of working from anywhere. Forbes. https://www.forbes.com/sites/adigaskell/2022/03/02/the-cybersecurity-challenges-of-working-from-anywhere/?sh=269058ec14ccLingelbach, K. K. (2018). Perceptions of female cybersecurity professionals toward factors that encourage females to the cybersecurity field (1056) [Doctoral dissertation, Nova Southeastern University]. NSUWorks, College of engineering and computing. https://nsuworks.nova.edu/gscis_etd/1056Mayhew, R. (n.d.). Key recruitment & retention strategies. Chrnon. https://smallbusiness.chron.com/importance-eliminating-discrimination-60498.htmlOrye, E., & Faith-Ell, G. (2020). Cyber workforce recruitment and retention: an awareness assessment [PDF]. NATO Cooperative Cyber Defence Center of Excellence. https://ccdcoe.org/uploads/2021/02/Workforce-Sep_20_v5.pdfPatton, H. (n.d.). Cybersecurity diversity cannot be solved by tools or policy, but by the way we think. National technology security coalition. https://www.ntsc.org/resources/ntsc-blog/cybersecurity-diversity-cannot-be-solved-by-tools-or-policy,-but-by-the-way-we-think.htmlStanford encyclopedia of philosophy. (2017, September 26). Distributive justice. https://plato.stanford.edu/entries/justice-distributive/Vyas, L. (2022). “New normal” at work in a post-COVID world: Work–life balance and labor markets. Policy and Society, 41(1), 155–167. https://doi.org/10.1093/polsoc/puab011Wolor, C., Solikhah, S., Fidhyallah, N., & Lestari, D. (2020). Effectiveness of e-training, e-leadership, and work life balance on employee performance during COVID-19. The Journal of Asian Finance, Economics and Business, 7(10), 443–450. https://doi.org/10.13106/jafeb.2020.vol7.no10.443            [CBH1]Maybe some kind of transition here 	2Click or tap here to enter text.	1