Impacts of COVID-19 on Corporate AmericaMSG Alvin CookSergeant Major CourseClass 73SGM Menendez/Mr. HaukMay 5, 2023      Impacts of COVID-19 on Corporate America      	In January 2020, the world was thrust into a panic as a global pandemic rocked the world to its core. This “pandemic” would later be identified and called the coronavirus of 2019 (Covid-19). As Covid-19 spread from far reaches of Asia, it finally reached the shores of America in January 2020. Amid these cases, American leadership started taking precautionary measures that would have lasting ramifications on the public and corporate America. The American government implemented strict lockdowns based on guidance from the Center for Disease Control (CDC) that impacted millions but not nearly as much as maybe corporate America. Through the lockdowns, remote working was implemented. That is where this research gets interesting. Would remote working be temporary, or would it be long-lasting? In addition to that, what are the long-term ramifications, if any, on returning to the workplace as it was known prior to Covid-19?       COVID-19 and the GDP      	Covid-19 hit corporate America in various ways, none more prevalent than through the emergence of remote working and unemployment, two things that can be linked tightly. The Labor Department reported in a separate report that initial claims for unemployment benefits increased by 12,000 to 1.434 million in the week ending July 25. In the week ending July 11, a staggering 30,2 million Americans were receiving unemployment checks (Mutikani, 2020). Amid historical layoffs and unemployment, Covid-19 was making its presence known. Corporate America was in a decline with no solution to slow the fall. Corporations were fighting with keeping their properties open while production was declining based on workers having to quarantine and not be able to come into the office, warehouse, etc. The alarmingly increasing number of layoffs showed that there needed to be solution installed. As corporations struggled to get a foothold on it, a hybrid workflow was born remote working. With this method in place, corporate America hoped to regain some lost revenue and the government hoped it would ease the burden of unemployment.       Remote Working During COVID-19      	The outbreak of Covid-19 is credited by economist Nicholas Bloom as being the impetus behind the rise of the "working-from-home economy."(Amico, 2021). Although it has been suggested that some American workers were already operating in this medium, hover, the number of people doing so after the introduction of Covid-19 increased dramatically. In theory, it would give the worker some flexibility to work from home in their own comfortable environment, which is something they would benefit from. However, research has shown that employers became less trusting of their employees because they were unable to see what the worker was actually doing. The flip side of this situation is that employees are blurring the lines between their personal and professional lives because their employers believe they are "on call" because they no longer need to come into the office to get things done. Therefore, a solution that on the surface would appear to answer the question of Covid-19 lockdowns was now creating more problems, but these problems were only occurring in the personal sphere of the worker rather than in the professional sphere. These compounding problems, which were supposed to improve the production of the company, were now becoming a hindrance for the company for the second time. After the lockdowns were lifted, many businesses began employing a hybrid strategy in an effort to find a solution to this problem. This hybrid model would help bridge the gap between full-fledged office work and the teleworking that was prevalent during the COVID era.       Implementing Hybrid Office      Now that the pandemic has been going on for an entire year and COVID-19 vaccinations are racing against new mutations, business executives all over the world are refocusing their attention on one of their most unusual challenges: getting employees back to work. There is little hope that operations will return to normal once the pandemic is relegated to the annals of history (Farre, 2021). A new business model known as hybrid was introduced just as companies were having trouble getting workers back into the office. An employee participating in hybrid work would report to the office anywhere from one to three days per week and would spend the remaining days working from their homes. On its own, this appeared to be a solution to the problem of how to bridge the gap between working full-time from an office and working remotely.       However, businesses quickly realized that despite the blurring of lines between work and life, many employees felt more at ease working from home. This led to a rise in telecommuting. During the lockdown, many businesses had to deal with the additional financial burden of their empty office buildings, so they decided to sell them off. This was yet another disadvantage. Since workers were beginning to report for duty once again, it was necessary to provide them with a workspace. Because companies now needed to get back into real estate, the need for a workplace that was less friendly to hybrids was driven by this need. Corporate America anticipated that its employees would return to work full-time after moving into their newly renovated offices. Therefore, the hybrid model required some additional tweaking. As soon as workers went back to their jobs, problems that had been suppressed during the lockdown began to resurface; none of these problems were more pressing than the company's failure to treat its returning workers in a way that is diverse, ethical, or inclusive.       Diversity      COVID-19 crisis has made the difficulties that were already present for several different groups (Ellengrud, Krishnan, Krivkivich, Kukla, Mendy, Robinson, Sancier-Sultan, and Yee) much worse. Several groups had already fallen significantly behind the diversity power curb proportionally. The majority of the people who belonged to these groups were people of color, women, and working parents. When discussing the workforce, diversity is a factor that contributes to a variety of factors. During the pandemic, people had the impression that females were more concerned than their male counterparts about mental health issues and the workplace environments in which they worked. Women tended to view it as a long-term problem that required long-term solutions, whereas men tended to view it with an attitude of "it is what it is," which means "it is what it is." Let's say that businesses in the United States want to eliminate the diversity gap and treat all of their workers on an equal footing. In that case, they are obligated to address the concerns of anyone, and everyone interested in being included in the labor force. COVID-19 discovered and brought to light problems within the corporate workforce that had been neglected in the past. Now that a pandemic has divided them and it affects a more significant proportion of their workforce, corporate leaders could capitalize on the situation and make the necessary changes to increase the diversity of their workforce rather than allowing it to divide it. This would be preferable to allowing the pandemic to divide it.      Additionally, hiring practices were affected by diversity considerations. The manner in which companies offered employment shifted as they gained experience navigating the COVID and post-COVID eras. The importance of recruitment significantly increased. During the pandemic, some businesses began instituting more lenient work policies, such as staggered or flexible work hours, a variety of schedule options, voluntary reductions in hours worked, job sharing, and paid leave (U.S. Bureau of Labor and Statistics, 2023). Diversity was now at the forefront, not just in employees but also in the opportunities that employees had from company to company. This was a shift from previous times when diversity focused solely on employees. Being a diverse employee was no longer the most important factor; rather, being a diverse company was now considered to be even more important. More than ever before, the variety of work options available and the atmosphere of the workplace were becoming more important than the wages. An applicant for a job was considering whether or not they wanted to work for someone based not on the amount of money they would make, but rather on how flexible their options were in regards to the office work and office hours. In addition to the already growing number of factors relating to diversity, a large number of potential employees were also looking to be included in the workforce. This acceptance was largely predicated on the fact that they had either received the vaccine or taken a stance opposed to its use. The welcoming nature of the workplace was emerging as an increasingly important consideration in the selection process.      Inclusion      I have high hopes that those in positions of authority will be able to cope with increased vulnerability and the possibility of coming to terms with the fact that they are possibly not as inclusive as they assert themselves to be and believe they are. It is much more likely for a leader to succeed at being inclusive if they have a growth mindset, are willing to learn, and recognize that they do not know everything about difference and creating a sense of belonging for an individual (Frank, 2020). When taking a more holistic approach to inclusion, leaders cannot simply state, "Look, we have all these awards;" rather, they must consider how they can improve upon what is already successful in the effort to make the community more welcoming to all. Inclusion should be viewed more as an ongoing process toward improving the working environment for all employees rather than as a quick-and-easy solution.       COVID-19 drew attention to the fact that earlier Diversity and Inclusion (D&I) policies contained flaws that had not been discovered before the pandemic. Due to the fact that so many working women also have responsibilities at home, they report feeling excluded from their workplace. On the other hand, male workers are entirely preoccupied with their jobs. Many workers in corporate America want to be more included than they were in the past and are now using their voice to emphasize that they want to be included more than they were in the past; therefore, the old way simply will not do as corporate America transitions into a post-COVID-19 environment.       Ethical Ramifications      	Individuals around the globe have been subjected to severe restrictions on their liberties: quarantine requirements, closed borders, and curfews have limited our ability to move freely; events and gatherings, including political demonstrations, have been banned; we have been denied access to visit family members even when they were seriously sick or dying; we have been required to reveal personal information (for instance, when going to a restaurant) to enable contact tracing; we have been required to wear masks; and many have not been able to attend schools or go to work (Biller-Andrno & Spitale, 2022). The government, although good-willed, implanted steps to quell the virus that caused ethical issues in return. Americans, wanting to return to corporate America or anywhere else in America, now must decide whether or not to get a vaccine that would allow that. Americans have been getting vaccines for decades, but no vaccine in history was more polarizing or brought more scrutiny on ethics or freedom than the Covid-19 vaccine.         Many people in the United States found themselves caught between two unethical choices. They would be required to get vaccinated before they could return to the workplace if they wanted to continue working so that they could provide for their family. In addition to the required vaccinations, there were also COIVID screening stations present in the majority of businesses at this point. This screening is already a potential invasion of privacy because it raises the possibility that an individual will be investigated further in the event that it is determined that they are COVID positive or displaying signs of COVID. On the other hand, Americans were forced to confront their very own moral conundrums when they were required to get a shot that they didn't agree with in order to keep their jobs. Many people made the decision not to, which led to an increase in the number of unemployed people in the United States. Those individuals who were fortunate enough to be allowed to return to work were met with increased expectations at their places of employment as a result of the absence of coworkers. Despite the merging and blending of the hybrid solution with the work-from-home option, not all ethical issues were resolved. One of the problems that remained was the fact that there was a mix of people who had the vaccine and others who did not. Many people had the impression that they needed to advocate for or defend their cause rather than continue working as usual. The overwhelming sense that there would be a battle to be fought each day at work was another factor that contributed to employees not wanting to go back to work. Now corporate America was squarely at a crossroads: they could either enforce an unethical dilemma in order to populate their offices or switch to a hybrid model and run the risk of being unable to monitor an employee's output.       Employment applicants and job seekers were increasingly expected to make ethical and moral decisions. Job seekers were actively seeking positions that would accommodate their personal preferences regarding vaccination. To make ends meet, Americans were no longer interested in taking any old job. They were now considering the moral and ethical implications of potential jobs. In contrast to pre-COIVD times, when Americans would take a job based on other factors like pay or advancement opportunities, they would now decline or outright avoid that job opportunity if there was a chance they would be opposed or offended ethically. It was obvious that American jobseekers had expanded their criteria list.       Synthesis      	Following the lockdown and the implementation of solutions to the Covid-19 pandemic, corporate America is beginning to get back on track. During this time, there are many lessons that can be learned, and there are many workarounds that can be blended, to maximize the return to the workforce for millions of Americans. First and foremost, there is now more than one way to maximize revenue and production while simultaneously employing a citizen of the United States. If an employer gives workers the option to decide whether they would prefer a hybrid, total, or work-from-home schedule, then job satisfaction will increase. In addition, corporate America has the ability to assist in resolving some of the moral conundrums that its employees face when it comes to receiving the vaccine. People are more likely to maintain their employment if they have the option to work from home and avoid being required to get the vaccine.      On the other hand, one has the choice to receive a vaccine that does not have any of the moral conundrums connected to it and then return to the general labor force if they so choose. This alternative is also available. Corporate America now has the opportunity to bring the most diverse workforce in the history of the world while simultaneously creating the most flexible, diverse, and inclusive work environment that has ever been known. The traditional routine of clocking in and out between the hours of nine and five inside a building can now be rewritten as "work here, work from anywhere." Choosing this path will result in lower unemployment rates as well as increased levels of employee satisfaction, creative freedom, and overall production.     Conclusion      In January of 2020, the world was shaken to its core by a global pandemic. This "pandemic" would ultimately be traced to a specific coronavirus that would be given the name "Covid-19" in 2019. In January of 2020, after making its way across Asia, Covid-19 arrived in the United States. In light of these incidents, the U.S. government and businesses began taking preventative measures with far-reaching consequences. The CDC advised strict lockdowns across the United States, which affected millions of people but not nearly as many as the business sector. Lockdowns facilitated the introduction of remote work. Remote work had not only increased since the pandemic, but it has also become the new norm in many professions. So, as Corporate America rebounds form COVID-19, they have also gained a new tool to maximize profits while also increasing the flexibility of their workforce.                                                             ReferencesAmico, L. (2021, October). The realities of remote work. Harvard Business Review. https://hbr.org/2021/10/the-realities-of-remote-workBiller-Andorno, N., & Spitale, G. (2022, August). Addressing Volatile Ethical Issues of Covid-19 with the Core Five Enduring Values List for Health Care Professionals. New England Journal of Medicine. https://catalyst.nejm.org/doi/full/10.1056/CAT.22.0108Bonnemaison, M. (2021, April). The deadly impact of covid-19 in the united states - south florida media network. South Florida Media Network. https://sfmn.fiu.edu/the-deadly-impact-of-covid-19-in-the-united-states/IBM. (2021). The hybrid office, post COVID-19: making work safe for people and ideas. www.ibm.com/blog/hybrid-office-work-from-home-post-covid-19Mitchell, T. (2021, March). In their own words, americans describe the struggles and silver linings of the covid-19 pandemic. Pew Research Center. https://www.pewresearch.org/2021/03/05/in-their-own-words-americans-describe-the-struggles-and-silver-linings-of-the-covid-19-pandemic/Mutikani, L. (2020, June). What to know about the report on america’s covid-hit gdp. World Economic Forum. https://www.weforum.org/agenda/2020/07/covid-19-coronavirus-usa-united-states-econamy-gdp-decline/Sencer, D. J. (2021, August). Cdc museum covid-19 timeline. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. https://stacks.cdc.gov/view/cdc/110786U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. (2023, March). Business responses to the COVID-19 pandemic. https://www.bls.gov/spotlight/2023/business-responses-to-the-covid-19-pandemic/home.htm