A Phenomenological Study of Positive and Effective Leadership’s Influence on 
Success in Iowa Army Recruiting Companies




Dissertation Manuscript



Submitted to Northcentral University

School of Business

in Partial Fulfillment of the

Requirements for the Degree of

DOCTOR OF PHILOSOPHY



by

COLE BARRETT HAMILTON










La Jolla, California

January 2021


Abstract
The management and leadership practices associated with the Northern Iowa, Des 
Moines, and Iowa City Army Recruiting Companies in the Minneapolis Army Recruiting 
Battalion’s higher headquarters were examined to determine how three similarly 
resourced and situated recruiting companies obtained different success levels or failures 
within recent history. The theoretical framework for this dissertation was rooted in 
Locke’s goal-setting theory. Phenomenological qualitative data were gathered from 
Recruiters and Recruiting Station Commanders throughout the State of Iowa to 
understand leadership practices’ influence on Army recruiting success. In an equal 
allocation of funding and equipment, the primary influencer of success or failure may rest 
on those persons charged with leading the companies. Results substantiated successful 
practices that may be replicated across the entire U.S. Army Recruiting Command. 
Improving leadership practices in a recruiting organization may prove a more viable 
approach to achieving success in the fiscal year 2021 and beyond. Semistructured 
interviews were obtained from Recruiting Station Commanders and Recruiters in four 
recruiting stations from each recruiting company. Findings revealed clearly defined 
management and leadership principles for effective leadership within the USAREC. The 
implications of the findings describe how leaders in Iowa Army Recruiting Companies 
use effective and positive leadership to influence their organization to achieve mission 
success. Results indicated a positive relationship between effective leadership behaviors 
and mission success. Recommendations include further qualitative analysis to understand 
the driving factors for success or failure within the USAREC. Further research may 
determine if other recruiting companies leverage the leadership principles associated with 
Iowa Army Recruiting Companies. Research is also recommended on the effects of toxic 
leadership within recruiting organizations. Researchers should continue to conduct 
phenomenological research on recruiting companies that realized success or failure to 
determine the driving factors from the Recruiters’ and Station Commanders’ 
perspectives. A second recommendation is to further explore the effects of toxic 
leadership within recruiting organizations. Toxic leadership behaviors are considered 
hostile and abusive behaviors that destroy the organization’s trust and credibility while 
spurring resentment. Toxic leadership behaviors may influence mission success within 
the USAREC.


Acknowledgments
      I want to acknowledge my wife, Leslie, and our beautiful boys for their tireless 
support while I balanced my professional, academic, and personal goals. They sacrificed 
equally, if not more, by allowing me to dedicate countless hours toward pursuing my 
academic endeavors. Without the support of my family, I would never have accomplished 
the goals I set for myself. I would also like to acknowledge my parents, Sherry and Bo, 
and parents-in-law, Pamela, and Ron, for being unconditionally supportive, encouraging, 
and understanding while I achieved my goals. I realize I am blessed with a beautiful 
family who supports and encourages a desire for life-long education. My family has been 
my most exceptional support system over the last 10 years of academia. I look forward to 
passing along the same level of passion for education to our two wonderful boys. Dad, I 
wish you could be here to see us now.


Table of Contents
Chapter 1: Introduction	1
Statement of the Problem	3
Purpose of the Study	4
Introduction to Theoretical Framework	6
Introduction to Research Methodology and Design	8
Research Questions	9
Significance of the Study	10
Definitions of Key Terms	13
Summary	16
Chapter 2: Literature Review	18
Theoretical Framework	20
Effective Leadership Behavior	24
Task-oriented Leadership Behaviors	25
Relations-Oriented Leadership Behaviors	28
External Leadership Behaviors	37
Leader-member exchange (LMX)	40
Measurement of Exchange Quality	43
LMX Antecedents and Member Consequences	46
Emotional Intelligence	63
Summary	66
Chapter 3: Research Method	69
Research Methodology and Design	71
Population and Sample	77
Materials or Instrumentation	80
Study Procedures	82
Data Collection and Analysis	84
Assumptions	87
Limitations	88
Delimitations	89
Ethical Assurances	90
Summary	91
Chapter 4: Findings	93
Trustworthiness of the Data	94
Credibility	94
Transferability	95
Dependability	95
Confirmability	96
Results	96
Research Question 1	98
Research Question 2	101
Research Question 3	104
Research Question 4	107
Evaluation of the Findings	108
Summary	112
Chapter 5: Implications, Recommendations, and Conclusions	113
Implications	119
Research Question 1	120
Research Question 2	121
Research Question 3	123
Research Question 4	125
Recommendations for Practice	127
Recommendations for Future Research	129
Conclusions	131
References	134
Appendices	150
Appendix A: Interview Questions	151
Appendix B: Informed Consent Form	152


List of Tables
      
Table 1. Three Domain Approaches to Leadership	42
Table 2. Demographic Information of Respondents from Iowa Army Recruiting 
Companies	97


List of Figures
      
Figure 1. Commander’s Visualization	28
Figure 2. Eight Recruiting Functions	30
Figure 3. Recruiting Company Network	38
Figure 4. Leader-Member Exchange Antecedents and Consequences Theoretical 
Framework	47
Figure 5. Leader Charisma and the Emotional Contagion of Positive Emotions from 
Leaders to Followers	56
Figure 6. Framework of Emotional Competencies	64
Figure 7. The Phenomenological Concept of Experience	81
Figure 8. The Steps of Data Analysis	83
      
      

Chapter 1: Introduction
      Human resource departments are tasked with the critical role of staffing the right 
positions with the right personnel (Gurchiek, 2008). Failure to manage the vital personnel areas 
within a company would be disastrous for any organization. There is a delicate balance between 
hiring employees to meet end-strength goals and hiring the best-qualified candidates for 
positions within a firm. Recruiting managers within a human resources department are tasked 
with an even more critical role in structuring and executing a company’s recruiting objectives, 
which will result in a company attracting highly qualified performers to their team (Sartain, n.d.). 
The responsibility lies with a recruiting manager to ensure their units are equipped with the tools 
and resources to achieve their goals.
      Furthermore, recruiting managers are considered an essential element in a successful 
recruiting strategy (Davisu, 2006). Leveraging, empowering, and operationalizing an 
organization’s recruiting force is the most vital strategic human resource management objective 
pertaining to unit strength and talent management (Argue, 2015; Mbugua et al., 2015; Rovero, 
2016). Human resource practices directly influence an organization’s connection with its 
employee’s performance, retention, and overall citizenship behaviors (Rafiei & Davari, 2015).
      The dissertation topic was focused on determining what influence effective and positive 
leadership has on Recruiter efficiency and success in an Army recruiting organization. Positive 
leadership is a leadership strategy that fosters a productive and positive work environment, 
boosts positive relationships amongst all persons within an organization, sets the guidelines for 
and promotes positive communication methods, and drives organizational values and 
meaningfulness (Lis, 2015). One of the critical characteristics of effective leadership is a leader’s 
ability to improve their team’s performance by efficiently influencing the processes that 
determine their performance (Yukl, 2012). The U.S. Army’s leadership definition is rooted in the 
aggregation of positive and effective leadership concepts with their two-fold definition of 
leadership. Army doctrine states that leadership must “influence people by providing purpose, 
direction, and motivation to accomplish the mission and improve the organization” 
(Headquarters, 2019a, p. 11). First, Army leaders must provide purpose, direction, and 
motivation – a concept similarly stated in effective leadership fundamentals. Army leaders must 
then be able to use effective leadership methods to accomplish organizational goals and improve 
the team – an idea identified in the roots of positive leadership. Therefore, this dissertation was 
conducted to analyze the culmination of positive and effective leadership methods as a single 
concept to include how positive and effective leadership influences success in Iowa Army 
Recruiting Companies.
      Leaders of the United States Army Recruiting Command (USAREC), both Soldiers and 
civilians, are charged with meeting the congressionally mandated requirements for new enlisted 
Soldiers and commissioned officers (John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act, 2019; 
USAREC, 2014). This requirement is tasked to USAREC at the start of each fiscal year with the 
understanding that the mission is expected to be achieved no matter the economic, sociological, 
or political climate of the United States’ population. Whether during a time of conflict or peace, 
the number of Soldiers required to staff the United States military must be achieved for the sake 
of national security and to allow the military to remain an all-volunteer force, free of mandatory 
conscripted service (Bartlett et al., 2009). 
      Army recruiting is a unique section of the military service as it focuses on private sales 
functions and practices (Derrtouzos & Garber, 2006; Frieman, 1987). Army Recruiters are 
charged with finding personnel to join the service through any means possible so long as it 
remains moral, ethical, and legal. Army recruiting’s art and science mirror most civilian sector 
hiring and sales organizations (Derrtouzos & Garber, 2006; Chonko et al., 1991). Most of the 
research conducted on effective leadership in a recruiting organization stems from data from 
leadership, management, motivational, and influential theories.
      This study demonstrated the significance associated with positive psychology and 
effective leadership and the implications they have on Recruiter motivation and productivity 
levels. Applying positive psychological leadership methods to organizations has definitively 
impacted their employees’ level of productivity and engagement (Lyngdoh et al., 2018). 
Therefore, additional research, literature reviews, and analyses of theoretical frameworks, 
coupled with an examination of Iowa Army Recruiting Companies, further solidified the need for 
the organization to focus on positive and effective leadership methods if they are to be successful 
in the future.
      In the fiscal year 2018, USAREC was tasked with recruiting 76,500 and 15,600 new 
enlistees into the United States Army Active Component and Reserve Components, respectively. 
Unfortunately, after a tireless year of recruiting efforts, USAREC achieved only 69,972 of their 
active components and 11,327 of their reserve components missions (AUSA, 2018). 
Understanding that failure is not an option for recruiting quotas, leaders within USAREC must 
look inwards at the methods and practices they utilize to motivate and lead Recruiters to success 
effectively. 
Statement of the Problem
      The problem addressed by this study was how a lack of effective and positive leadership 
in Iowa Army Recruiting Companies led to the inability of these companies’ capabilities to 
leverage Recruiter productivity and effectiveness to achieve mission success in Fiscal Year 2018. 
Analyzing one set of sub-organizations within USAREC gives insight into why USAREC, for 
the first time since 2005, missed its combined mission by 11,500 Soldiers (Baldor, 2018). 
Another occurrence of failure of the United States Army to achieve its recruiting goal would 
impact and raise challenges for the United States’ current national security strategy (President of 
the United States, 2017). 
      The three recruiting companies identified in the study were ideal research candidates. 
Historical data showed extreme fluctuations in their mission achievement over the last five years. 
Theoretically, successful behaviors should be easily identifiable and replicable; therefore, 
recruiting managers should implement strategies that will definitively lead to success. 
Unfortunately, after nearly two decades at war, Army Recruiters have begun to see a decline in 
U.S. citizens’ propensity and ability to enlist in the Army (Spoehr & Handy, 2018). Recruiting 
managers have reverted to working Recruiters six days a week for upwards of 10 hours a day to 
make up shortfalls and achieve their missions (Myers, 2018). Recent increases in work hours and 
extreme levels of applied pressure are indicative of historically destructive behaviors in 
USAREC (McChesney, 2009). During the last recruiting surge, toxic leadership methods led to a 
catastrophic loss, with five Soldiers committing suicide in the Houston Recruiting Battalion 
(McChesney, 2009). As the organization reorganizes after missing its mission in 2018, toxic 
leadership behaviors are surfacing, indicating a reversion to harmful management techniques. 
Purpose of the Study
      The purpose of this phenomenological qualitative study was to identify the effective and 
positive leadership practices within Iowa Army recruiting companies that are being utilized to 
maximize Recruiter productivity and effectiveness to bring Northern Iowa, Des Moines, and 
Iowa City Army Recruiting Companies to levels of efficiency that would allow them to achieve 
their mission. Army recruiting companies in Iowa account for three of the 54 companies in the 
3rd Recruiting Brigade. The companies identified are representative of the more than 280 
recruiting companies within USAREC. The U.S. Army Recruiting Command is comprised of 
five separate recruiting brigades; therefore, narrowing the scope to analyze the errors associated 
with Iowa Army Recruiting Companies should allow for greater insightfulness as to how to re-
shape USAREC into an organization that achieves success as it has for the 12 years before 2018. 
This phenomenological qualitative study was conducted to analyze the leadership attributes, 
managerial methodologies, organizational citizenship behaviors, and training and resources that 
result in successes or shortfalls within three selected Army recruiting companies. Establishing 
the critical fundamentals associated with the constructive and fruitful behaviors will eliminate 
the costly fluctuations these companies have experienced while streamlining them into an 
approach that will deliver consistently positive results. This study was also implemented to 
analyze what managers are doing effectively to facilitate the recruiting process and review and 
define behaviors that keep the respective recruiting companies from achieving success. The 
primary qualitative research method used was the semistructured interview process to ask open-
ended questions to elicit enough data to reach the proper saturation level. Critical concepts, 
phenomena, and ideas helped the researcher identify management methods, level of influence, 
subordinates’ perceptions of their leaders, organizational commitment, levels of power, and 
expertise levels. The target population included 101 active and reserve component Recruiters and 
recruiting Station Commanders from the three Army recruiting companies covering the State of 
Iowa. Through purposeful sampling, 10 participants were selected to provide semistructured 
interviews.
      This research study extends generalizability to the majority of all civilian, military, and 
government organizations. Companies that focus their efforts on effective recruiting operations 
can realize 3.5 times more revenue growth and twice the profit margin than companies focusing 
on other areas of organizational development (Strack et al., 2012). Effective recruiting operations 
flow talent and human capital into an organization; therefore, the results of this study pose 
significant value to nearly any industry that leverages human capital as its cornerstone to 
success.
Introduction to Theoretical Framework 
      The theoretical framework from which this dissertation was derived accredits multiple 
studies focused on management and leadership and human motivational theory. Management and 
leadership and human motivational concepts are responsible for driving organizational citizen 
behaviors and higher levels of efficiency and employee productivity (Barbuto & Story, 2011). 
The fundamental question sparking the need for research was what can leaders in an Army 
recruiting organization employ to fuel productivity and achieve success? No previous studies 
covered Army recruiting companies in Iowa; therefore, the answer was yet to be uncovered. 
However, the framework for the dissertation was founded on Locke’s goal-setting theory and 
similar theoretical ideologies.
Locke’s Goal-Setting Theory
      As published in 1968 and further refined from the 1990s to the present, Locke’s original 
goal-setting theory demonstrates thorough research and analyses that useful goal setting can be 
directly connected to higher performance levels in an organizational context when implemented 
effectively (Locke, 1968). This theory states that three fundamentals are required to use goal 
setting as a useful motivational tool. These concepts include: hard goals produce higher levels of 
productivity when compared to easy-to-achieve goals, specificity is required when establishing 
challenging goals rather than asking employees to do their best, and choice behavior can be 
dictated by employee behavioral intentions (Locke, 1968). In addition to the fundamentals 
required to use goal setting, four moderators are associated with this theory’s feasibility (Latham 
& Locke, 2018). These moderators are as follow:
*	 Ability: Ability in this context refers to a person or group’s knowledge or skill level 
of the task at hand. One’s ability level significantly increases their commitment to the 
goal one will set out to achieve. Asking a Recruiter to contribute one hundred 
enlistments a month is beyond reasonable expectation. It will be unlikely to motivate 
them (Latham & Locke, 2018).
*	Commitment: One of the critical aspects of implementing goal setting is ensuring an 
individual or team is committed to achieving the goal. An individual who is 
uncommitted to attain a goal cannot have a goal by nature of the definition of a goal. 
An organization’s most abled employees will never achieve success if they lack 
commitment to the mission (Latham & Locke, 2018).
*	Feedback: Employees in recruiting organizations or similar human resources firms 
rely on clear and consistent feedback to maintain high-performance levels. 
Additionally, suppose the input is not given regularly and openly defined. In that 
case, employees are unaware of situations in which they should continue, increase, 
decrease, or abandon workplace behaviors that may be hindering them or the 
organization entirely (Latham & Locke, 2018).
*	 Situational Constraints: Organizations must prepare their employees for success. 
Companies that lack the financial, technological, or human resources to achieve their 
mission will not succeed. Furthermore, organizational leadership must be cognizant 
of their requirements and behaviors to avoid becoming a burden on the task at hand 
(Latham & Locke, 2018).
Introduction to Research Methodology and Design
      Data collection methods included the phenomenological qualitative research method of 
employing semistructured interviews with a randomized sample of the population as the primary 
data source. Interview results gave insight and obtained enough data to discover trends and 
experiences associated with leadership practices in Iowa Army recruiting companies. Measures 
were taken to avoid limitations associated with those selected for the interview. The study 
strictly captured people’s experiences who were willing and able to give insight into the 
questions provided.
      Qualitative research methods of this caliber are demonstrated to successfully validate and 
verify current employee engagement and productivity levels in previous research studies (Lesabe 
& Nkosi, 2007; Seymen, 2015; Srivastava & Bhatia, 2013). The research method was focused on 
understanding employees’ motivation and commitment to the organization; furthermore, the 
study revealed the role the attributes above have on the sub-organizations throughout USAREC. 
USAREC’s goal is to achieve its annual recruiting mission to secure the personnel required to 
continue protecting our nation in times of war and peace (Spoehr & Handy, 2018). If those 
charged with achieving this mission are not genuinely engaged in their professions, whether due 
to poor leadership, lack of proper motivation, or lack of competence and training, the 
responsibility lies with organizational leaders to determine how to rectify the situation.
      Phenomenological qualitative research methods are ideal for employee engagement and 
productivity and organizational citizenship behaviors studies. Research studies related to gauging 
individual points of view and commitment levels towards an organization’s goal have been 
proven to benefit from qualitative research methods (Lesabe & Nkosi, 2007). In a qualitative 
study, Shuck et al. (2011) found that companies such as North Shore LIJ Health System, Johnson 
and Johnson, and Caterpillar, realized substantial organizational benefits, including record 
profitability, after they made a deliberate plan to focus on employee engagement and 
productivity across the company (Shuck et al., 2011). In this study, the preferred method of data 
collection included interviewing, document and data collection, and observational analyses at 
various large successful organizations. The researcher leveraged the use of interviewing as a 
critical component of the findings in this research design. Interviews lasted no more than 45 
minutes and were conducted telephonically. Furthermore, an interview guide was established to 
help obtain information ranging from hiring and recruiting practices to employees’ 
understanding of their roles within the team (Shuck et al., 2011). This study’s success was 
indicative of the most appropriate method used in the data collection phase of the dissertation.
Research Questions
      This dissertation utilized the four primary methods of qualitative measurement in 
research. Before the semistructured interview process, the researcher analyzed the historical 
levels of mission achievement. While there is a constant turnover associated with any military 
organization, ideally, recruiting stations should perform at the same levels based on the 
geographic and socioeconomic factors of their areas of responsibility. Therefore, any significant 
increases or decreases in performance were noted and incorporated into the qualitative research 
questions posed to Recruiters and Station Commanders in those respective locations.
      Analyzing a recruiting station’s historic success levels helped give insight into whether 
the leadership methods facilitate success. A purposive sample was gathered from three different 
recruiting companies that have experienced both success and failure over the years. 
Incorporating historical analyses assisted the researcher in discovering what differences existed 
between similar groups with very different outcomes.
      The research questions to be answered were:
Q1.	To what extent does positive and effective leadership play a role in mission success or 
failure in Iowa Army Recruiting Companies from Recruiters’ and Station 
Commanders’ perspective?
Q2.	How do Recruiters’ attitudes and overall comprehension of Army recruiting practices 
influence their ability to be productive and effective in achieving recruitment goals in 
Iowa Army Recruiting Companies from Recruiters’ and Station Commanders’ 
perspective?
Q3.	What are the Iowa Army Recruiting Company Leadership Teams’ dominant leadership 
characteristics from the Recruiters’ and Station Commanders’ perspective?
Q4.	What are the driving factors for Army Recruiters’ productivity and effectiveness in 
Iowa Army Recruiting Companies, from Recruiters’ and Station Commanders’ 
perspective?
Significance of the Study
      The significance of the study had a direct relationship with the problem statement of the 
dissertation. The United States Army Recruiting Command is the only recruiting organization 
within the United States Army. No other organization can cover the shortfalls of USAREC if 
they do not achieve their annual goals. Without achieving their yearly goals, the United States’ 
national security is in jeopardy (Spoehr & Handy, 2018). The purpose of USAREC is significant 
in itself; therefore, conducting research and analyzing critical factors that allow the organization 
to achieve success may have an effect on the largest branch of the military’s readiness and 
potential.
      Aside from 2018, USAREC had not missed a recruiting goal since 2005 (Baldor, 2018); 
therefore, they must achieve their goal in future years to keep the United States Army on track 
with its end-strength goal of 500,000 AC Soldiers by 2028 (Department of the Army, Financial 
Management and Comptroller, 2018). While the Army always has people separating and joining, 
based on the reports that USAREC missed its fiscal year 2018 mission by 6,528 (AUSA, 2018), 
the goal of reaching 487,500 (John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act, 2019) 
becomes that much more critical to the Army’s task. 
      This study also presented an opportunity to analyze one of the individual sectors within 
the military’s human resources functions. Army recruiting is unlike any other component within 
the entire organization. Most personnel assigned to USAREC are selected on an involuntary 
basis, whether due to their rank, current occupation, time in service, or an aggregate of the three. 
Soldiers are pulled from their career field, trained for seven weeks, and then sent to a recruiting 
station to be assigned for the next three years (USAREC, n.d.b.). Soldiers who are assigned to 
USAREC come from every command and geographic region in the world. Screening criteria 
must be met. Still, there are very few personality factors that would determine who may be 
inherently prepared for being an Army Recruiter rigor.
      Utilizing Locke’s goal-setting theory and similar theories related to employee 
engagement and productivity, coupled with literature reviews that focus on human resource 
management methods and leadership studies, allowed this dissertation to be a first of its kind 
from an academic setting. This dissertation’s core focus was the analysis of the three recruiting 
companies in the State of Iowa; however, the results and data yielded from the research can be 
expanded to a national level, which would assist USAREC in mission achievement in the years 
to come. USAREC has set forth scientific guidance, which is to be implemented across every 
recruiting station in the command, yet what remains is the analyses of what leaders, multiple 
echelons from the Command level, are employing and implementing daily to achieve mission 
success. This study revealed what additional management and leadership tools are required to be 
synchronized with the training and preparation given for success to be reached in the career field 
of recruiting.
      Phenomenologically analyzing leadership’s influence on success in Iowa Army recruiting 
companies has never been publicly researched before; thus, examining what makes 
suborganizations within USAREC successful is vital to the unit’s overall accomplishment. There 
are two primary leaders in a typical Army recruiting company, the Company Commander and 
the Company First Sergeant. This Company Leadership Team (CLT) is responsible for the 
welfare of the Soldiers assigned to their company and the accomplishment of their assigned 
mission. Commander and First Sergeant duties require an excessive amount of time and energy. 
They are limited to two-year tours of duty. Rather than expecting each CLT to operate and lead 
their companies in different ways, this research narrowed down leadership methods and practices 
that can lead to success. This research could change the future approach to incorporate more 
leadership-based training into the USAREC Company Commander and First Sergeant Course 
instead of the current curriculum, which focuses primarily on statistics and supervision of 
recruiting tasks. 
      Recruiting individuals who can provide value to an organization is vital to an 
organization’s success (Breaugh, 2009). The United States Army is no different and relies on 
many of the same principles as private organizations. The U.S. Army must recruit the best-
qualified persons for the correct positions if they are to remain a dominating, talented, and lethal 
force in the world (U.S. Army Cyber Command, 2019). USAREC has historically encountered a 
problem with the sustainability of the results being accomplished in their recruiting stations; 
therefore, the concept behind the research executed aimed to determine what has made the 
systemically successful Recruiters and recruiting stations achieve their results while identifying 
disturbing trends in management that lead to unfavorable outcomes. This dissertation offers a 
significant contribution to the future successes of Iowa Army recruiting companies and may 
benefit the overall literature on the importance of how influential effective and positive 
leadership is on an organizational recruiting program. 
      Furthermore, findings from this study demonstrated positive leadership behaviors might 
be the driving force behind successful recruiting companies. The study’s results have the 
potential to change how Recruiters, Station Commanders, and all other associated Soldiers 
conceptualize and execute Army recruiting practices. Recruiting practices in the first decade of 
the War on Terror campaigns were deemed toxic and detrimental as recruiting leaders punished 
and drove their subordinates to a stint of suicides in 2009 (McChesney, 2009). Since that time, 
leaders have been prudent when balancing the mission’s risk against the force’s risk. Adjusting 
the focus away from how well a CLT can manage their recruiting stations’ daily tasks and 
metrics to enhancing how to influence Recruiters to achieve their goals properly could be the 
most notable change to occur throughout USAREC’s 50-year history.
Definitions of Key Terms
Active Component 
      Active Component, also referred to as Regular Army, Active Duty, or Active Army, 
denotes the U.S. Army segment that serves in a full-time capacity. These Soldiers are stationed 
on one of the Army’s installations and make up most of the force (U.S. Army, n.d.).
Active Guard Reserve (AGR)
      Active guard reserve (AGR) Soldiers represent individuals from the Reserve Component 
on full-time active duty status. The majority of the AGR positions throughout the world are 
Recruiters as AGR Recruiters are put on full-time status to recruit men and women into the U.S. 
Army Reserve (U.S. Army Reserve, n.d.).
Army Leadership
      Army leadership is “the process of influencing people by providing purpose, direction, 
and motivation to accomplish the mission and improve the organization” (Headquarters, 2019a, 
p. 11). 
Department of the Army Selected Recruiter (DASR)
	DASR refers to Soldiers selected to be assigned to USAREC for a three-year recruiting 
tour. At the completion of their tour, DASRs will return to their original career field to continue 
working in their primary career field (USAREC, n.d.).
Effective Leadership
      Effective leadership is defined as a leader’s ability to improve their team’s performance 
through efficiently influencing the processes that determine their performance (Yukl, 2012). 
Enlist
      Enlist refers to an action where a qualified individual will sign a contractual agreement to 
ship to basic training, with a follow-on Active Duty or Reserve Component assignment 
(Headquarters, 2019e).
Military Occupational Specialty (MOS)
      An alpha-numeric code, called an MOS, is associated with a specific job in the Army. 
Each MOS contains “information describing entry prerequisites, characteristics of job-holders 
and entry-level training courses, and the nature of the work performed” (Kirin & Winkler, 1998, 
p. 5).
Mission
      U.S. Army Recruiting Command’s mission in this context refers to its monthly, quarterly, 
and annual goal for a specified number of men and women entering the U.S. Army 
(Headquarters, 2019e).
Phase Line
      Phase line refers to the time frame for which recruiting goals are expected to be met. 
There is a phase line for every month that typically starts in the middle of the month and runs 
through the middle of the following month. For example, the February phase line ran from 
January 11, 2019, to February 14, 2019 (Headquarters, 2019e).
Positive Leadership
      Positive leadership aims to foster a productive and positive work environment, boosts 
positive relationships amongst all persons within an organization, sets the guidelines for, 
promotes positive communication methods, and drives organizational values and meaningfulness 
(Lis, 2015).
Recruiting Station
      Recruiting stations refer to a recruiting office that may have anywhere from 3 to 15 Army 
Recruiters assigned. One station may be responsible for up to 80 high schools in their area of 
operations (Headquarters, 2019e).
Reserve Component
      Reserve component, also stated as the Army Reserve or Reserve, refers to Soldiers who 
serve in part-time status, typically one weekend a month and two weeks a year (U.S. Army, n.d.).
Troop Program Units (TPU)
      Troop program units (TPU) refer to the companies, detachments, and other U.S. Army 
Reserve subunits. The two primary statuses of Army Reserve Soldiers are AGR, which is full-
time, and TPU, which is part-time. In this study, AGR Recruiters fill vacant positions within 
TPUs with Army Reserve enlistees (U.S. Army Reserve, n.d.).
79R
      79R is the MOS for Active Component and Army Reserve Recruiter. Duties include 
recruiting “qualified personnel for entry into the Army in accordance with applicable regulations, 
supervises recruiting and recruiting support activities” (Office of the Deputy Assistant Secretary 
of the Army, 2018, p. 1).
Summary
      This study helped define what influence organizational leaders’ effective and positive 
leadership methods have on Recruiters’ ability to succeed. Leaders in this organization are given 
autonomy to direct and manage their teams as they see fit. This autonomy leaves teams at the 
mercy of their managers, depending on which leadership method they employ. Integrating 
theoretical frameworks and literature reviews to analyze if successful Army recruiting companies 
apply similar leadership concepts as reviewed in scholarly articles will reinforce positive 
leadership behaviors and minimize destructive management methodologies. 
      The research conducted identified the positive and effective leadership occurrences 
throughout the research process. This study focused on facilitating and replicating success by 
leveraging desirable behaviors while minimizing toxic leadership styles that do not embody 
positive and effective leadership. The sample population encompassed over 100 Soldiers 
assigned to three recruiting companies in the State of Iowa. The method used was semistructured 
interviews. Coding was used to categorize and target specific occurrences. Key terms were 
identified to help give this dissertation readability to those unfamiliar with Army recruiting. The 
data collected led to addressing how managers can influence and lead Recruiters to achieve peak 
efficiency levels. 
      Throughout the dissertation, literature reviews and further examinations of theoretical 
frameworks supported the positions that effective and positive leadership can positively 
influence an organization’s level of success; however, only the research conducted on the sample 
population associated with the Iowa Army recruiting companies demonstrated the real 
foundation for future success. Iowa Army Recruiting Companies cannot afford to encounter 
failure regularly. Insight into the U.S. Army’s recruiting methodologies and how effective and 
positive leadership is integrated into Iowa Army recruiting companies’ strategies for success 
significantly contributes to the fields of human resources, leadership, management, and 
recruiting.


Chapter 2: Literature Review
      The purpose of this phenomenological qualitative study was to explore effective and 
positive leadership practices that may be applied to maximize USAREC Recruiter and Station 
Commander productivity and effectiveness and allow them to achieve their mission, from the 
perspective of Northern Iowa, Des Moines, and Iowa City Army Recruiting Companies. The 
researcher also indicated proven methods that will allow Northern Iowa, Des Moines, and Iowa 
City Army Recruiting Companies to continue streamlining successful practices that can be 
implemented despite the regular turnover of active and reserve component Recruiters and Station 
Commanders. The researcher outlined the critical elements of effective and positive leadership 
that directly relate to organizational sustainability and success. The researcher elaborated on 
concepts associated with Lis’ (2015) definition of positive leadership, which includes fostering a 
productive and positive work environment, boosting positive relationships amongst all persons 
on a team, promoting positive communication methods, and driving organizational values. Yukl 
(2012) defined effective leadership as a leader’s ability to improve team performance is fostered 
through efficiently influencing the processes that determine performance. In the Army, positive 
and effective leadership is the process of influencing a team by providing “purpose, direction, 
and motivation to accomplish the mission and improve the organization” (Headquarters, 2019a, 
p. 11). The literature review is based on these two definitions. 
      In this literature review, the researcher bound the connection between positive and 
effective leadership and successful organizations. Specifically, the review is designed to 
demonstrate the need for consistent positive and effective leadership in Iowa Army Recruiting 
Companies if Recruiters are to be successful in current and future recruiting operations. The 
literature, both current and seminal works, was examined to link the impact further positive and 
effective leadership has on the Army’s human resources function of recruiting. 
      The research strategy focused on the following organizational characteristics: positive 
leadership, effective leadership, organizational leadership, positive psychology, emotional 
intelligence, employee engagement, employee productivity, organizational behaviors, and human 
motivational theories. The Army recruiting organizations are a collective of sales-based teams, 
recruiting teams, and departments; therefore, the review and analyses of organizational 
characteristics are examined within the collective context. The researcher used the following 
primary search methods to locate literature for the review: The Northcentral University Library, 
Google and Google Scholar, ProQuest e-book databases, and previous articles and textbooks 
gathered in doctorate-level courses.
      Throughout the literature review, the primary databases accessed were the Northcentral 
University Library Roadrunner Search, Researchgate, ScienceDirect, ProQuest, Google Scholar, 
and Google. The primary date parameters used included date ranges of all years and 2015–2020. 
The type of documents searched for were scholarly journal articles followed by books. The 
search terms included effective leadership behavior, leader-member exchange, organizational 
citizenship behaviors, emotional intelligence, leadership, human resource management, positive 
leadership, leader-follower relationship, and social exchange.
      This chapter of the dissertation investigates the management and leadership theories that 
leverage the power of a leader’s positive influence and the leader’s ability to motivate the team. 
The majority of this chapter reviews the importance of high exchange relationships between 
leaders and team members, emotional intelligence, and the ideal leader character behaviors. The 
information is supported by current Army doctrine as well as a vast array of scholarly sources. 
The first section provides insight into the dissertation’s theoretical framework, which is rooted in 
Locke’s (1968) goal-setting theory and transformational leadership theories.
Theoretical Framework
      Goal-setting theory was developed by Edwin Locke and Gary Latham in 1990 after 
having dedicated over 30 years toward perfecting an idea on incentives, task motivation, and 
goal setting procedures (Locke & Latham, 2019). Locke’s first article, “Toward a Theory of 
Task Motivation and Incentives” (Locke & Latham, 2019, p. 97), was published in 1968. From 
there, Locke joined Latham to conduct nearly 400 studies and perfect a theory that focused on 
the effects of goals on task performance (Locke & Latham, 1990). Locke and Latham were 
aware of the dangers of premature theorizing before releasing their theory (Locke, 1976, 2007; 
Locke & Latham, 2005); however, their prudence resulted in an approach that has withstood 
nearly three decades (Locke & Latham, 2019).
      Goal-setting theory served as an improvement to Vroom’s (1964) expectancy theory in 
many ways as it redefined methods that drive people to achieve more significant levels of 
success (Jong, 2017). Expectancy theory only served to be “positively related to performance; 
however, because difficult goals are harder to attain than easy goals, the expectancy of goal 
success would presumably be negatively related to performance” (Locke & Latham, 2002, p. 
706). Therefore, Locke and Latham assumed that expectancy theory would only drive people so 
far to achieve success. It is wholly dependent upon the individual’s expected reward for the 
behavior exhibited. The goal-setting theory proved to consistently increase employee 
productivity in theory and application (Latham, 2012). 
      Several factors influence the effective implementation of a goal-setting strategy within an 
organization. Locke and Latham acknowledged in their research that “goal intentions in 
themselves do not automatically activate self-reactive influences of motivation. Knowledge or 
ability is a prerequisite” (Latham, 2012, p. 66). Locke and Latham identified four mediators that 
influence goal-setting and task-performance effects: choice/attention, effort, persistence, and 
relevant strategies (Latham, 2012). 
      Locke and Latham also identified four moderators that work together synchronously to 
allow employees to pursue their goals: ability, goal commitment, feedback, and task complexity 
(Locke & Latham, 2019). Employees must have the capacity required for the task if the goal is to 
be feasible. Successful goal-setting strategies require an employee’s motivation and cognition 
(Wood et al., 2013). Likewise, when managers assign goals that are perceived as excessively 
burdensome, the opposite effect can occur. Overly challenging goals have been correlated with 
toxic leadership and abusive workplace behaviors (Mawritz et al., 2014). 
      Expectancy theory (Vroom, 1964) and self-efficacy theory (Bandura, 1997) share 
similarities with goal-setting theory (Locke & Latham, 2018). Vroom stated, “a higher 
expectancy of performance effectiveness is more motivating than a lower expectancy” (Locke & 
Latham, 2018, p. 98); however, Locke and Latham (2012) still proved that a “high goal leads to 
higher performance than one that is easily attained” (p. 99). Self-efficacy concepts state that 
“task or domain self-confidence is positively related to performance “ (Locke & Latham, 2018, 
p. 99). Therefore, self-efficacy theory elements are incorporated. Self-efficacy is influenced by 
the goals assigned, which influence responses to feedback and goal commitment (Locke & 
Latham, 1990, 2002). Despite these similar theories’ influential elements, the goal-setting theory 
remains the most accurate theory on motivation and task-performance (Locke & Latham, 2018). 
Goal-setting theory consistently adds new findings, which enlarge researchers’ knowledge of 
mediator and moderator impact as well as unique applications in goal-setting theory’s application 
(Locke & Latham, 2013).
      Goal-setting theory was selected as the theoretical framework for this dissertation. It 
focuses on human motivation and goal-setting strategies. Goal-setting theory suggests that 
people work more efficiently and are more successful when they are given a goal to achieve 
(Ones et al., 2018). Furthermore, employees who embrace the concepts behind goal-setting 
theory will experience enhanced performance due to increased levels of motivation (Kim et al., 
2018). The core concepts associated with goal setting require the following:
*	 A detailed and challenging goal leads to higher performance than an easy goal, a 
vague goal such as “to do your best,” or no goal setting at all.
*	The higher the goal, the higher an individual’s performance.
*	Such variables as performance feedback, participation in decision-making, and 
competition do not affect behavior unless they commit to a specific, high goal. (Ones 
et al., 2018, p. 146)
      The practice of effective goal setting relies upon causal relationships (Ones et al., 2018). 
Kim et al. (2018) contended that the interactions found within the causal, dyadic relationships, 
referred to as the leader-member exchanges (LMX), provide the necessary mechanisms for goal-
focused leadership to increase task-performance. Therefore, task performance requires effective 
high-performing LMX coupled with focused and specific goal-setting methods for teams to 
operate at their highest efficiency levels (Kim et al., 2018; Ones et al., 2018).
      Army leadership is founded upon building cohesive teams based on mutual trust, and 
leaders providing purpose, direction, and motivation to their subordinates to achieve unit goals 
(Headquarters, 2019b). Army leadership concepts mirror those outlined in goal-setting theory 
and correlate to how Army leaders must leverage management theories to be successful. 
USAREC Training Circular 5-01, Mission Command (USAREC, 2017a), reflects the importance 
of daily interactions, which consist of goal-setting guidance and task-performance review, 
between the Station Commander and the Recruiter, and between the CLT and the Station 
Commander. Leaders use the in-progress review (IPR) to capture everything from daily, weekly, 
and monthly goal-setting to subordinate training and development, personnel issues, and 
employee recognition. The IPR process highlights the importance of causal, dyadic, and task-
performance relationships synchronized with effective and positive LMX interactions (Kim et 
al., 2018; USAREC, 2017a). 
      Leaders who implement the IPR and goal-setting process in USAREC should be wary of 
the potential for toxic leadership and abusive effects associated with exceedingly difficult goal 
assignments (Mawritzet al., 2014). Goals must be achievable, as the task relates to the 
employee’s level of ability and knowledge to buy-in to the organizational strategy (Locke & 
Latham, 1990). Leaders in USAREC should leverage goal-setting strategies through the IPR 
process with the intent of individually assigning goals to Recruiters that are difficult but 
achievable if they expect to see a maximum return (Ones et al., 2018).
      Goal-setting theory has many mediators, moderators, and precursors that influence the 
concept’s implementation (Locke & Latham, 2019). The goal-setting theory requires positive 
and effective leadership behaviors if it is to be effective. Additionally, goal-setting theory 
applied to group involvement, and leader-follower teams, has been proven successful (Porter & 
Latham, 2013; Pritchard et al., 2013). Finally, emotional intelligence is determined to be a 
precursor for successful workplace behaviors (Ashkanasy & Daus, 2005; Brackett et al., 2011; 
Lopes et al., 2006). The literature review will examine how the successful integration of 
effective leadership behaviors, active usage of emotional intelligence, and effective leader-
member exchanges can supplement a goal-setting theory to drive positive and effective 
leadership.
Effective Leadership Behavior
      Effective leadership behavior is one of the primary topics throughout this dissertation. It 
would be overly simplistic to state that an organization’s efficiency depends on a good leader. 
Yukl’s (2012) article on effective leadership behavior provides a critical thesis and an in-depth 
review of the specific leader attributes associated with truly effective organizational leadership. 
Yukl (2012) analyzed decades’ worth of leadership behaviors to discover leadership traits, 
categorizing them into four meta-categories with 15 specific associated components. The four 
meta-categories include task-oriented, relations-oriented, change-oriented, and external. 
According to Yukl, leaders must align their anticipated organizational outcomes and goals with 
the four categories’ related components. Leaders must embrace the meta-category associated 
with their intended leadership approach. Each element drives results for the given category. The 
basis for addressing effective leadership behaviors and how they apply to organizational 
efficiencies and processes stem from the critical guidance laid out from a supervisor to their 
subordinates through task-oriented leadership behavior (Henkel & Marion, 2019).
      There are four meta-categories, along with their respective components, of Yukl’s (2012) 
hierarchy of leadership behaviors. The first category of Yukl’s scale starts with task-oriented 
leadership behaviors. Task-oriented leadership behaviors align with the theoretical framework 
and give breadth to the overarching functions of Iowa Army recruiting companies. Recruiting 
company and station leaders must clarify tasks, plan operations, monitor progress, and direct the 
various processes that facilitate the recruiting function (USAREC, 2017d).
Task-oriented Leadership Behaviors 
      Task-oriented leadership behavior helps leaders ensure a team’s personnel, equipment, 
and other resources are used efficiently to achieve organizational goals (Yukl, 2012). Leaders 
who display task-oriented leadership behaviors drive productivity within an organization to 
achieve specific and measurable goals. Behaviors associated with task-oriented leadership 
include clarifying, planning, monitoring operations, and problem-solving. Task-oriented 
leadership components directly align with Locke’s goal-setting theory and can help leaders better 
establish and facilitate specific organizational outcomes (Locke et al., 1981; Yukl, 2012).
      The behaviors associated with the task-oriented meta-category align perfectly with Locke 
et al.’s (1981) concept of goal setting. Leaders utilize goal setting to give specific and 
measurable guidance to team members. A set performance standard that appropriately measures 
end-results will assist leaders in clarifying employee assigned tasks and responsibilities. Leaders 
must also be able to differentiate between tasks and goals when distributing guidance to their 
teams. Tasks are “pieces of work to be accomplished” (Locke et al., 1981, p. 126), whereas goals 
are the “object or aim of an action” (p. 126). Leaders must clarify which task-oriented behavior 
is sought from subordinates while synchronously maintaining a goal-setting approach. The four 
practices associated with task-oriented leadership behavior, clarifying, planning, monitoring, and 
problem-solving, are further explored in the following sections. 
      Clarifying. The act of clarifying requires that a leader ensures the employees understand 
their specific function within the team (Yukl, 2012). Clarifying can include identifying daily 
operational responsibilities, assigning specific tasks, emphasizing team goals, deadlines, 
priorities, and establishing performance expectations. By stressing these aspects of an 
employee’s role within the organization, the leader can improve the entire team’s performance 
(Locke & Latham, 1990; Yukl, 2012). Likewise, the Army employs the Department of the Army 
Pamphlet (DA PAM) 611-21: Military Occupational Classification and Structure (Headquarters, 
2018a) to address and specify a Soldier’s specific roles and responsibilities in their career field. 
The Army also leverages the guidance outlined in DA PAM 600-25: U.S. Army 
Noncommissioned Officer Professional Development Guide (Headquarters, 2018b) to establish 
the roles and expectations of leaders that are not necessarily career specific.
      Planning. The planning component focuses on making decisions about goals and 
organizational priorities, organizing functions and tasks, scheduling actions, and allocating 
available resources for projects (Yukl, 2012). The primary objective for the leader in this area is 
to collectively execute all goals and team priorities through maximizing the team’s efforts and 
avoiding redundancies, such as two employees attempting to complete the same task. Proper 
planning is the cornerstone of nearly all Army leadership ideologies. The leader’s primary drive 
is to provide strategic planning through purpose, direction, and motivation (Headquarters, 
2019a). USAREC leaders rely on the principles outlined in Army Doctrine Publication (ADP) 6-
0, Mission Command (Headquarters, 2019b), ADP 5-0, The Operations Process (Headquarters, 
2019d), and USAREC Manual (UM) 3-30, Recruiting Company Operations (Headquarters, 
2019f), to develop the commander’s intent and a course of action to achieve success.
      Monitoring. A leader uses monitoring to ensure specific guidance is followed, and tasks 
are completed to standards set forth by leaders (Yukl, 2012). Information obtained during this 
phase gives leaders insight into whether the original guidance should be adjusted or maintained 
throughout the task’s completion. Yukl (2012) offered specific advice on the careful use of 
monitoring so as not to negatively influence progress with processes that become “intrusive, 
excessive, superficial, or irrelevant” (p. 70). When used effectively, monitoring can be critical 
for ensuring a project stays on track through completion. Leaders in USAREC utilize the In-
Progress Review (IPR) as the primary method of monitoring and directing recruiting operations 
(USAREC, 2017e). Commanders use command and control principles to receive feedback, 
adjust procedures, and modify their vision of the process as needed (Headquarters, 2012b). 
Commanders must leverage control to answer:
*	What is the actual situation compared with the desired end state?
*	Are adjustments to the plan necessary to reconcile the situation with the desired 
end state? (Headquarters, 2012b)
      Problem-solving. Problem-solving is a fundamental critical behavior associated with 
effective leaders (Yukl, 2012). Leaders who can identify deviations in operations and destructive 
employee behaviors can remedy situations and keep their teams operating at peak efficiency 
levels. Furthermore, leaders must quickly distinguish whether a problem can be resolved with a 
quick adjustment or require substantial leader involvement from higher levels within the 
organization (Yukl, 2012). Army leaders leverage visualization ideals to solve challenging tasks 
during the operations process (Headquarters, Department of the Army 2019b). Through this 
mental process, commanders understand the current situation, visualize the operational approach, 
and define the end state. This process is depicted in Figure 1.
Figure 1 
Commander’s Visualization
 
Note. Reprinted from “Army Doctrine Publication 6-0, Mission Command” by Headquarters, 
2019b, p. 49. Reprinted with permission.
	Task-oriented behaviors are the beginning stages of a leader realizing the full potential of 
effective leadership behaviors. Once a leader has grasped the concepts associated with this 
phase, the focus may be redirected to the benefits related to relations-oriented practices. 
Relations-oriented leadership behaviors focus on supporting, developing, recognizing, and 
empowering one’s team (Yukl, 2012).
Relations-Oriented Leadership Behaviors 
      Relations-oriented leadership behaviors are specifically focused on the connections made 
between leaders and team members, leaders, team members, and the organization; and the 
organization and its commitment to the mission (Yukl, 2012). Yukl stated that relations-oriented 
behaviors are a vital element of the leader-member exchange (LMX), emphasizing the 
importance of the leader-member relationship and how it directly correlates to organizational 
success (Jyoti & Bhau, 2015; Martin, 2015; Yukl, 2012). The components of relations-oriented 
behaviors include supporting, developing, recognizing, and empowering; each part is described 
in the following sections.
      Supporting. The supporting leadership behavior component refers to leaders showing 
team members positive regard, helping employees through stressful situations, and facilitating 
cooperative team-focused relationships (Yukl, 2012). Supporting leadership is proven to be one 
of the most successful behaviors that define effective leadership qualities (Yukl, 2012; Zhang et 
al., 2017). Alternatively, negative forms of supporting such as toxic, hostile, or abusive leader 
behaviors are proven to destroy trust and credibility, encourage resentment-type practices, and 
create opportunities for retaliatory actions (Yukl, 2012). 
      Army commanders use the application of operational art to leverage their “skill, 
knowledge, experience, creativity, and judgment” (Headquarters, 2019c, p. 25) when developing 
strategy and mobilizing forces to achieve the mission. Commanders and their staffs in USAREC 
employ the eight recruiting functions through two mutually supportive cycles when supporting 
Recruiters on the ground who are responsible for achieving the mission (USAREC, 2017c). Two 
rings work synchronously together. When executed by CLTs, they provide the supporting and 
sustaining foundations for Recruiters to succeed (USAREC, 2017c). Figure 2 displays the outer 
ring of support that includes mission command, sustainment, and training and leader 
development. The inner ring consists of intelligence, prospecting, interviewing, processing, and 
Future Soldiers. Together, the two rings develop the method in which CLTs support their 
Recruiters and drive productivity. 
Figure 2 
Eight Recruiting Functions
 
Note. Reprinted from “USAREC Manual 3-0, Recruiting Operations” by Headquarters, 2019g, p. 
20. Reprinted with permission.
      Developing. Leader development practices are used to increase team members’ skill 
levels and overall confidence in their profession (Yukl, 2012). Developing can occur at all levels 
within the organization – from the leader to the member, between colleagues, and between 
experienced employees and new managers. Organizations require positive and inspirational 
leaders to guide them; therefore, leaders at all levels should embody and radiate the leadership 
traits they want to develop in their team members (Headquarters, 2019a). Positive relationships, 
established through leaders or team members taking a genuine interest in their cohort’s 
development, are critical indicators of leadership effectiveness (Yukl, 2012).
      Leader development has always been one of the Army’s top priorities (Headquarters, 
2019a). Army leader development includes “education, training, and experience” (Headquarters, 
2019a, p. 13). The Army leadership requirements model has six primary categories: character, 
presence, and intellect as three leader attributes; and leads, develops, achieves as three leader-
competencies (Headquarters, 2019a). Through the continual focus on developing and training 
one’s Soldiers to be proficient at their craft, Army leaders leverage the principles of 
development. 
      Recognizing. Like the reliance on positive relationships demonstrated by the previous 
two behaviors, the practice of recognizing focuses on emphasizing team members’ contributions 
to the organization. Leaders have the inherent responsibility of designing an environment where 
employees desire to work as a cohesive unit with a passion for achieving the group’s purpose 
(Koontz, 1965). Areas of emphasis that will drive organizational success include praise for 
achievements, overall performance levels, and individual contributions to the team’s mission 
(Yukl, 2012). Recognition may come in various mediums such as awards, compensation, time-
off, public praise, or similar methods. The differencing factors associated with effective and non-
effective leaders can be seen in a leader’s active pursuit of recognizing and highlighting team 
members’ achievements. Effective leaders seek out areas of opportunity to acknowledge and 
praise their teams to reinforce positive employee practices (Yukl, 2012). 
      Army leaders at every level in the organization are directed to encourage hard work and 
recognize Soldiers’ achievements (Headquarters, 2019a). Through the successful recognition of 
Soldiers, Army leaders drive motivation and provide future purpose and direction. Effective 
Army leaders find and capitalize on the core motivating factors of Soldiers (Headquarters, 
2019a). Through the synchronous alignment of command priorities and Soldiers’ motivations, 
CLTs develop and attack a “shared understanding of the operational picture” (Headquarters, 
2019a, p. 48). USAREC (n.d.b.) has established awards and recognition policies that leverage the 
operative principles of leader contingent reward behaviors as depicted by researchers (Dulebohn 
et al., 2012; Puni et al., 2018). Leaders are encouraged to utilized contingent reward behaviors as 
one of the many tools available to motivate, inspire, and influence Recruiters to accomplish their 
mission and achieve success (USAREC, 2017b).
      Empowering. Leaders who find ways to empower their subordinates, and team members, 
will see near-immediate results in “decision quality, decision acceptance, job satisfaction, and 
skip development” (Yukl, 2012, p. 72). Empowering has been defined as “the act of 
strengthening an individual’s beliefs in his or her sense of effectiveness” (Conger, 1989, p. 18). 
Empowering employees is essential to allow for growth and organizational development. 
Empowering builds teams to be more productive by focusing on increasing individual 
determination and give team members the skills required to cope in a challenging environment 
(Conger, 1989). 
      Alternatively, ineffective empowering behaviors can lead to ambiguity and too much 
autonomy in areas where autonomous decision making can be detrimental to organizational 
goals. Ineffective empowering, also referred to as depowering, sacrifice leadership to achieve 
organizational results (Curtin, 1989). Depowering an organization results in team members who 
lack citizenship behaviors and drives employees to leave their positions (Curtin, 1989). The 
practice of employee empowerment must be deliberate and strategic to develop into better team 
members and future leaders of the organization while synchronously avoiding insignificant 
autonomy or dangerous autonomous behaviors (Yukl, 2012). 
      The Army utilizes mission command as a core fundamental for all its operations 
(Headquarters, 2019d). Army mission command is the empowerment of Soldiers to make 
decisions at their operational levels to decentralize the execution of tasks when deemed 
appropriate (Headquarters, 2019d). USAREC leverages these principles holistically, given the 
geographic dispersion of the command. Recruiting stations are located throughout the continental 
United States, Europe, and Asia (USAREC, n.d.a.). Using mission command, Station 
Commanders are empowered to make decisions and rapid adjustments that will achieve better 
results given their proximity to the operations at hand (Headquarters, 2019d; USAREC, 2017a). 
      Fundamentally, leaders at all echelons leverage empowering their subordinates and 
implementing the other task-oriented leadership behaviors (Headquarters, 2019c). With task-
oriented leadership behaviors, CLTs and Station Commanders can give Recruiters guidance, 
support, and motivation to achieve the team’s mission. In addition to the task-oriented leadership 
behaviors, leaders in USAREC must rely on Army leadership principles outlined in ADP 6-22 
(Headquarters, 2019a) coupled with change-oriented leadership behaviors as described by Yukl 
(2012). Synchronizing these efforts will give leaders two of the four leadership behaviors that 
will result in a highly effective organization (Yukl, 2012).
Change-oriented Leadership Behaviors 
      Change-oriented leadership behaviors can be utilized to spur innovation, team-learning, 
and adaptation to external influences (Yukl, 2012). The four behavior-components within this 
meta-category are divided between encouraging change and facilitating change processes. 
Inspiring change is displayed through advocacy and vision. Advocating for change and 
envisioning change are necessary preparatory leadership behaviors to set the organizational 
culture. Facilitating change requires innovation and collective learning. Only once the 
preliminary culture has been established can an organization embrace change by encouraging 
innovation and promoting collective learning behaviors (Yukl, 2012). The components of 
change-oriented leadership behaviors, advocating change, envisioning change, encouraging 
innovation, and facilitating cooperative learning are described in the following paragraphs.
      Advocating Change. Yukl’s (2012) approach to advocating for change is grounded in 
Kotter’s change management theories (Kotter & Cohen, 2002). Complacency, fear, and anger are 
the three top reasons organizations fail to adapt and recognize emerging threats and opportunities 
(Kotter & Cohen, 2002). Effective leaders can counter organizational sentiments of 
complacency, fear, and anger and provide teams a sense of urgency to adapt to change. Leader 
involvement and effective leadership behaviors will mitigate organizational distress and 
ineffective solutions to mounting problems (Yukl, 2012).
      The Army employs its senior leaders to be change agents for their organizations (Galvin, 
2014). The Army utilizes its change agents to set “climates favorable to implementing change, 
top-down or bottom-up” (Galvin, 2014, p. 12). Initiating change from the top of the organization 
has never been the ideal route to pursue in any organization (Koene, 2017). The company and 
station leaders who follow their higher commander’s intent can execute changes on the 
operational level based on feedback and intelligence gathered from their Recruiters (USAREC, 
2017e).
      Envisioning Change. Leaders must visualize and communicate the desired change to 
employees if teams are to buy-in to seemingly radical ideas. A deliberate vision and strategic 
approach to change will be more inspiring and motivating. They will result in better reception 
and more effective implementation of the change (Yukl, 2012). Typically, innovative change is 
scary and risky; therefore, team members are more likely to accept the proposed ideas when 
leaders communicate confidence in a proposed change strategy. Leaders are cautioned to avoid 
risky and unrealistic policies that ultimately deter employees from organizational goals and 
priorities (Yukl, 2012).
      Once leaders have established the climate for successful change, the Army relies on 
senior leaders to develop and articulate their ideal end state to their forces (Galvin, 2014). Army 
leaders must be able to envision the desired future of the organization while synchronously 
communicating the details to their troops (USAREC, 2017c). Army leaders in recruiting execute 
this process through the issuance of orders to their subordinates. Orders “direct, coordinate, and 
synchronize subordinate actions to optimize results” (USAREC, 2017c, p. 21).
      Encouraging Innovation. Once leaders have established the team’s need for change, it is 
paramount that leaders nurture and promote innovation throughout the organization. Leaders 
should facilitate a climate of “psychological safety and mutual trust” (Yukl, 2012, p. 73) with the 
mindset of encouraging team member input that will serve as a conduit for new ideas and 
opportunities. Organizations must be willing to gain and sustain an advantage against 
competitors. Only through encouraging innovation can an organization genuinely leverage being 
a market leader in the 20th century (Kalyani & Vihar, 2011). 
      The Army has recently invested in an innovation strategy for the first time in its history 
(The Office of Business Transformation, n.d.). Army leaders play a critical role in fostering an 
environment conducive to change; therefore, Army leaders are charged with encouraging 
innovation that holds the potential to benefit Soldiers and the service. CLTs are responsible for 
promoting innovative behaviors, through actions and words, and utilize their influence to be 
creativity-enhancing forces within the Army (Gumusluoglu & Ilsev, 2009; The Office of 
Business Transformation, n.d.).
      Facilitating Collective Learning. Effective leaders should encourage organizational 
learning opportunities that focus on team improvement (Yukl, 2012). Leaders must consider four 
contextual factors when promoting a collective learning environment within their teams: 
“corporate culture conducive to learning, a strategy that allows flexibility, an organizational 
structure that allows both innovativeness and new insights, and the environment” (Fiol & Lyles, 
1985, p. 804). When leaders account for these factors, they can establish the environment in 
which collective learning can be fostered and will flourish. Facilitating collective learning is a 
two-pronged approach. The organization seeks out ways to exploit current methods and 
strategies and explore new and innovative avenues. Leaders who leverage collective learning 
must analyze organizational successes and failures for the sake of enhancing the team’s overall 
effectiveness (Yukl, 2012). 
      Recruiting commanders utilize the after-action review (AAR) to facilitate collective 
learning in USAREC. The AAR is used to measure the return on investment in targeted 
operations and events (USAREC, 2017c). During this process, CLTs, Station Commanders, and 
Recruiters will analyze their performance and effectiveness periodically instead of at the end of 
the entire operation. The AAR facilitates a collaborative learning environment where feedback 
and analyses are used to implement methods to improve the organization and its success 
processes (USAREC, 2017c).
      Change-oriented leadership behaviors cover the roles and responsibilities of leaders 
charged with fostering, developing, and driving their organizations to improve. Senior leaders 
must set the tone for acceptance and innovation just as company leaders and Station 
Commanders must drive the innovation process based on their Recruiters’ feedback and 
intelligence. With an effectively poised command climate, recruiting companies possess the 
ability to lead their organizations to make successful changes. CLTs are charged with leveraging 
their organization’s external factors and influencers to support their organizations once their 
units have embraced an innovative and change-focused ideology. CLTs must first master their 
internal behaviors before branching out to work on their behaviors that influence their external 
networks. Finding a balance between mastering internal and external will create the environment 
for a leader to embody all the necessary leadership behaviors to be successful (Bachiochi et al., 
2000).
External Leadership Behaviors
      Leadership behaviors should not be solely focused on internal operations. Leadership 
behaviors must include the leader’s ability to empower the organization through external 
influencers. Great leaders should balance internal productivity with external practices such as 
networking, external monitoring, and representing to be successful in their industries (Yukl, 
2012).
      Networking. Networking is essential for an effective leader as it builds and maintains 
“favorable relationships with peers, superiors, and outsiders who can provide information, 
resources, and political support” (Yukl, 2012, p. 74). This effective leadership behavior 
component can include attending seminars, conferences, meetings, and multiple other similar 
relationship-building methods. Networking allows leaders to obtain industry-wide data that is 
relevant and can be put into practice within the organization. Networking should be implemented 
and encouraged at all levels of the team (Yukl, 2012).
      Networking provides Army organizations and civilian networking partners the ability to 
leverage innovation through the “exchange, transfer, and recombination of new knowledge and 
ideas” (LaPlaca, 2014). Recruiting leaders leverage an extensive network with the community 
partners in their area of operations (USAREC, 2017c). The internal and external networks 
include all the supporting components required for a recruiting company to operate within and 
amongst a civilian population. Network partners each play a pivotal role in the success of Army 
recruiting operations. These partners are listed in Figure 3.
Figure 3 
Recruiting Company Network
 
Note. Reprinted from “USAREC Manual 3-30, Recruiting Company Operations” by 
Headquarters, 2019f, p. 12. Reprinted with permission.
      External Monitoring. External monitoring refers to a leader’s general awareness and 
cognizance of impending changes within the organization’s political and industrial environments 
(Yukl, 2012). Leaders must have an extensive or influential external network that encourages 
harmony with their surroundings (Yukl, 2012). Furthermore, having a team of employees who 
are scouting external environments for significant indicators and changes can be even more 
powerful. External monitoring requires leaders to establish valuable and high-quality 
relationships with their subordinates, peers, and external influencers (Hassan et al., 2018). 
Ultimately, the need for external monitoring is dependent upon an organization’s reliance on 
external influencers (Yukl, 2012). Suppose an organization is sensitive to competitors or market 
changes. In that case, it will benefit the organization greatly to maintain a sizeable external 
monitoring presence.
      The Army uses the dual-designed manual, ATP 2-01.3, Intelligence Preparation of the 
Battlefield/Battlespace (IPB) (Headquarters, 2019e), as the guiding framework for external 
monitoring (USAREC, 2017b). Recruiting leaders leverage the IPB process to the recruiting 
environment, market, and external influencer analyses. During the IPB, CLTs conduct a precise 
examination of the market, coupled with the Recruiter’s feedback, to determine trends and areas 
of opportunity and weakness within their operating environment (USAREC, 2017c). Through 
pooling the intelligence gathered from Recruiters and external factors, commanders make 
informed decisions and establish their intent for Recruiters to pursue the commander’s guidance 
(USAREC, 2017c).
      Representing. Representing the organization is the fundamental role of a leader. This 
component requires a leader to interact with superiors, investors, stakeholders, or business 
partners regularly on behalf of the employees. How a leader presents to internal and external 
stakeholders can directly impact the organization’s ability to operate efficiently (Yukl, 2012). 
Often, leaders must sell themselves to their subordinates and external networks to gain the trust, 
support, and resources needed for the organization to succeed. Once leaders have achieved the 
ability to represent themselves to their organizations and their external influencers, they have 
attained all the requisites associated with effective leadership behaviors.
      Yukl’s (2012) theory on effective leadership behavior identifies characteristics and traits 
that successful leaders should embody to drive organizations to success. Iowa Army recruiting 
companies are no different – leaders in charge of Army recruiting organizations should embrace 
the four meta-categories and underlying components as core cultural leadership approaches. 
Company Leadership Teams are obligated to provide purpose, direction, and motivation to their 
recruiting teams through the steps identified in Yukl’s (2012) hierarchical taxonomy of 
leadership behaviors. Identifying and prioritizing leadership behaviors components will give 
CLTs the tools necessary to be successful; however, none of the components are independently 
unique tools for efficiency. Instead, Army leaders must first analyze their leadership styles and 
the needs of their organizations, and then strategically implement leadership behaviors if they are 
to work. The behaviors and leadership components “are most useful when they can be measured 
accurately, they can predict and explain leader influence on important outcomes, and they can 
improve leadership development programs” (Yukl, 2012, p. 79).
      Research on leadership and effective leadership behaviors has led to one continuous 
result over the past decade – organizational success depends on the manager’s leadership skills 
(Behrendi et al., 2017; Wang et al., 2011). Effective leadership will lead to accomplishing shared 
tasks and organizational goals (Behrendi et al., 2017). While the leader’s role in the leadership 
model is vital to the organization’s overall success, there is a shared responsibility between 
leaders and managers (Dulebohn et al., 2012). Researchers have established the link between 
high-performing organizations and optimal function dyadic relationships within organizations 
(Dulebohn et al., 2012; Erdogan & Bauer, 2015). The relationship between two employees, 
which establishes the dyadic partnership, is referred to as the leader-member exchange and 
serves as the bond that collectively develops a productive and successful organization (Mahsud 
et al., 2010).
Leader-member exchange (LMX)
      The leader-member exchange theory “suggests that a leader will develop an exchange 
relationship over time with each subordinate” (Mahsud et al., 2010, p. 561). Leadership in Iowa 
Army recruiting companies is a mandatory element of success. Confidence and competence in 
leadership styles, coupled with engagement with the recruiting team, will set the conditions for 
success in the recruiting career field (Headquarters, 2019g). The LMX theory indicates the full 
range of relationship stages between a leader and their subordinates. As leaders regularly engage 
their employees, the LMX relationship is negotiated and will eventually determine a quasi-
permanent work relationship. 
      High exchange relationships (HXR) will lead to positive work relationships, including 
elements such as “trust, liking, and respect” (Mahsud et al., 2010, p. 561). High exchange 
relationships are critical elements of successful organizations. In an HXR, leaders should be able 
to provide purpose, direction, and motivation (Headquarters, 2019a) through a clearly defined 
goal, which is the “object or aim of an action” (Locke et al., 1981, p. 126). In return, the 
employee is expected to be wholly committed to accomplishing the goal and stay loyal to the 
organization (Mahsud et al., 2010). This type of leader-subordinate relationship is held in the 
highest regard in Army leadership practices. Army mission command relies on HXRs when 
commanders implement authority and direction to “command and control that empowers 
subordinate decision making and decentralized execution appropriate to the situation.” 
(Headquarters, 2019b, p. 5).
      Alternatively, low exchange relationship (LXR) employees are only expected to perform 
the minimum amount of work required by their formal job specifications. Low exchange 
relationship employees will never go beyond achieving the baseline of any assigned task 
(Mahsud et al., 2010). Leader-member exchange relationships are the differentiating factor in 
leader effectiveness. Not only does the LMX help establish the organization’s culture, but it also 
can be indicative of an organization’s ability to solidify organizational citizenship behaviors and 
operate at a peak level of effectiveness (Newman et al., 2017).
      Leader-member exchanges in Iowa Army recruiting companies exist at multiple 
echelons. There is an LMX between the Recruiter and the Station Commander, between the 
Station Commander and the First Sergeant, between the First Sergeant and the Company 
Commander, and varying other LMXs between all involved parties depending upon each’s 
individual’s assigned roles and responsibilities within the organization. There must be HXRs 
between all interested parties to achieve higher employee satisfaction levels, optimal work 
performance, and higher retention rates (Mahsud et al., 2010). 
      Researchers have found that the effectiveness of the LMX is highly dependent upon the 
leadership style employed and the traits and characteristics associated with the members in the 
LMX relationship (Smith, 2016). High exchange relationships are synonymous with Yukl’s 
(2012) theories on effective leadership behaviors, Locke and Latham’s (1990) five principles for 
goal-setting, and the principles behind Army leadership and mission command (Headquarters, 
2019a; Headquarters, 2019b). The synchronicity between leadership behavior theories and 
effective leadership styles is the catalyst of a genuinely useful organization that will continue to 
succeed where others will fail. It is important to note that the responsibility of an HXR does not 
rest solely upon an organizational leader; instead, three domains comprise the LMX, and equal 
shares of responsibility are observed among each area. The domains include the leader, the 
follower, and the dyadic relationship (Graen & Uhl-Bien, 1995; Northouse, 2015). Each domain 
and person in the dyadic relationship has responsibilities to the LMX, as shown in Table 1.
Table 1 
Three Domain Approaches to Leadership

Leader-based
Relationship-based
Follower-based
What is 
leadership?
Appropriate behavior of the 
person in a leader role
Trust, respect, and mutual 
obligation that generates 
influence between parties
Ability and motivation to 
manage one’s performance
What behaviors 
constitute 
leadership?
Establishing and communicating 
vision; inspiring, instilling pride
Building strong relationships 
with followers; mutual 
learning and 
accommodation
Empowering, coaching, 
facilitating, giving up control
Advantages
Leader as a rallying point for 
organization; a shared 
understanding of mission and 
values; can initiate wholesale 
change
Accommodates differing 
needs of subordinates; can 
elicit superior work from 
different types of people
Makes the most of follower 
capabilities; frees up a leader 
for other responsibilities
Disadvantages
Highly dependent on the leader; 
problems if the leader changes 
or is pursuing an inappropriate 
vision
Time-consuming; relies on 
long-term relationships 
between specific leaders 
and members
Highly dependent on follower 
initiative and ability
When 
appropriate?
Fundamental change; a 
charismatic leader in place; 
limited diversity among followers
Continuous improvement 
teamwork; substantial 
diversity and stability among 
followers; network building
Highly capable and task 
committed followers
Where most 
effective?
Structured tasks; strong leader 
position power; member 
acceptance of the leader
Situation favorability for 
leader between two 
extremes
Unstructured tasks; weak 
position power; member 
nonacceptance of leader
Note. Reprinted from Graen, G. & Uhl-Bien, M. (1995). “Relationship-based approach to 
leadership: Development of leader-member exchange (LMX) theory of leadership over 25 years: 
Applying a multi-level multi-domain perspective,” by G. Graen and M. Uhl-Bien, 1995, 
Leadership Quarterly. 6(2), p. 224 (https://digitalcommons.unl.edu/managementfacpub/57/). 
Reprinted with permission.
Measurement of Exchange Quality 
      Scientifically measuring the LMX is a critical aspect of ensuring leader-employee 
relationships operate in the HXR range (Erdogan & Bauer, 2015). There are two tools used by 
researchers to identify where leaders and employees stand in their LMXs. According to Erdogan 
and Bauer (2015), “83% of all LMX studies captured the employee perspective” (p. 641). 
Measuring the LMX from the employee’s perspective allowed for more accurate results than 
when LMXs were evaluated by both the employee and the leader (Hiller et al., 2011). Three 
primary reasons indicate a variation in results when studying both the leader and the subordinate 
as opposed to solely analyzing the employee’s perspective on the LMX: (a) There exists an 
assumption that it is natural for employees and leaders to give varying answers when asked the 
“degree to which they like, respect, and feel loyalty to the other party” (Erdogan & Bauer, 2015, 
p. 641). Due to this fact, objective reality may not be genuinely reported; instead, individuals 
report their outlooks on the other individual as an exchange partner. However, with the impact 
that a person’s subjective assessment of the other LMX member has on one’s attitudes and 
behaviors, and ultimately, their work performance, the subjective evaluation provides the 
reliability of members’ feelings and subjectivity. (b) Individuals will experience varying levels 
of success in meeting the other members’ expectations within the dyadic relationship (Erdogan 
& Bauer, 2015). Depending on the organization, team members’ roles, and the members’ length 
and experience in the LMX, there is a naturally expected growth period. The LMX will naturally 
evolve as time goes by (Sin et al., 2009). (c) Leaders are apprehensive about reporting low-
quality exchange relationships (LXR) due to social acceptability concerns. No leader wants to 
admit that they cannot synchronously work together with members of their teams. Whether an 
LMX is operating at a peak level, when asking leaders, results may be disingenuous (Erdogan & 
Bauer, 2015). 
      Once the measurements of exchange quality have been established, leaders have two 
primary platforms to evaluate their LMX. These tools are the LMX-7 and the LMX-
Multidimensional. Each method of evaluation has been employed by researchers and carries its 
unique benefits. Leaders must analyze their organization to determine which of the two 
instruments would best fit their specific circumstances. The LMX-7 and the LMX-MDM are 
equally accurate and useful tools for measuring the level at which an LMX operates. The LMX-7 
method will be reviewed first.
      LMX-7. The original measurement method for LMX relationships was with the LMX-7 
(Erdogan & Bauer, 2015; Scandura & Graen, 1984). The LMX-7 is a 7-item questionnaire that is 
used to evaluate the dyadic relationship within the LMX. The questions range from, “Do you 
usually feel that you know where you stand, and do you usually know how satisfied your 
immediate supervisor is with you?” (Scandura & Graen, 1984, p. 430) To “I have enough 
confidence in my immediate supervisors that I would defend and justify his or her decisions if he 
or she were not present to do so” (p. 430). Each question has a range of answers, including a 
numerical value of one through four, that aggregately achieves a total score between seven and 
28. The higher the score on the LMX, the more likely the leader and employee are in an HXR.
      LMX-Multidimensional. The second method for measuring LMXs is with the LMX-
Multidimensional (Erdogan & Bauer, 2015; Liden & Maslyn, 1998). The LMX-
Multidimensional (LMX-MDM) framework’s essence is grounded in role theory, which focuses 
on the multidimensionality of human interactions. Examples of this concept include employees 
focusing solely on their work-related tasks and ignoring social interactions within their 
organization and employees who focus too much on social interaction while sharing little focus 
on work tasks (Liden & Maslyn, 1998). In addition to role theory, social exchange theory plays a 
critical role in the LMX-MDM concept framework. Social exchange theorists found that 
members of an LMX will have material and non-material exchanges such as friendship, 
mentorship, and camaraderie that will define the concept of LMX as multidimensional (Liden & 
Maslyn, 1998). 
      LMX-MDM theorists have further described LMX-MDM based on the idea that there are 
three exchangeable currencies within the relationship: task-related behaviors, loyalty, and affect 
(Liden & Maslyn, 1998). The multidimensional aspect considers all LMXs to be individual and 
to vary among those who belong in the LMX. Some LMXs will have a high emphasis on task-
related behaviors but lack loyalty and affect, just as others will be higher on the other side of the 
spectrum. Researchers used the literature that defined LMX-MDM to generate a measurement 
method that included multiple variations of questionnaires (Jian et al., 2014). By the completion 
of the study on LMX-MDM, the questionnaire had grown to 120 questions due to the trend of 
“trust and professional respect as being critical in their relationships with leaders” (Liden & 
Maslyn, 1998, p. 49). The results were indicative of Dienesch and Liden’s (1986) original four-
factor idea that detailed the critical components for measuring an LMX: affect, loyalty, 
contribution, and professional respect. Prioritizing the four elements of the LMX-MDM is the 
core of an HXR (Liden & Maslyn, 1998). LMX measurements are methods to establish the level 
at which the dyadic relationship will operate. After the status of the LMX has been determined, it 
is the antecedents and consequences that will define the organization’s efficiency.
LMX Antecedents and Member Consequences 
      High-quality exchange relationships do not exist naturally; instead, they must be 
developed over time (Erdogan & Bauer, 2015). Researchers have found that there are typical 
antecedents that will indicate a faster and more solid formulation of an HXR (Henderson et al., 
2009). Additionally, when these antecedents exist and are groomed in the dyadic relationship 
with proper focuses, the consequences of the LMX will be higher levels of employee 
performance (Erdogan & Bauer, 2015).
      LMX Antecedents. There are specific antecedents that serve as indicators for the 
forming of HXRs in the LMX. The premise of having characteristics that serve as predictors of 
HXRs came about in Liden, Wayne, and Stilwell’s (1993) review of demographic similarity and 
leader-rated performance. Researchers initially proved “perceived similarity, member 
expectations of the leader, and leader expectations of the member” (Erdogan & Bauer, 2015, p. 
642) to be the real differentiators in the early stages of LMXs. Given that an LMX has the proper 
antecedents, the LMX then goes through the beginning stages of formulation where members 
will or will not develop trust as part of a mutual testing process (Dienesch & Liden, 1986; 
Erdogan & Bauer, 2015). Leader-member exchanges that develop trust in the early stages set off 
a rapid reaction of increasing responsibility followed by confirmed feelings of mutual trust, thus 
further solidifying the importance of the antecedents is a critical element at the early stages of an 
LMX (Duchon et al., 1986). 
      Researchers have further expanded upon the concept of who is responsible for which 
antecedent if members are to form an HXR (Erodgan & Bauer, 2015). Early studies indicated as 
long as there was a mutual relationship founded on the antecedents listed in Figure 4, the LMX 
was pre-dispositioned to operate at the level of an HXR (Erodgan & Bauer, 2015). However, 
Dulebohn et al. (2012) further delineated the roles and responsibilities of the categories in which 
the LMX encompasses. As seen in Figure 4, three categories indicate the perfect criterion for an 
HXR.
Figure 4 
Leader-Member Exchange Antecedents and Consequences Theoretical Framework
 
Note. Reprinted from “A Meta-Analysis of Antecedents and Consequences of Leader-Member 
Exchange: Integrating the Past with an Eye Toward the Future,” by J. H. Dulebohn, W. H. 
Bommer, R. C. Liden, R. L. Brouer, & G. R. Ferris, 2012, Journal of Management, 38(6), p. 
1717 (https://doi.org/10.1177/0149206311415280). Reprinted with permission.
      Follower Characteristics. Fiske (1993) proved that initial perceptions of the dyadic 
partner are based mostly on individual characteristics. Furthermore, initial attraction within the 
relationship is based on physical characteristics and personality (Byrne, 1971). As the dyadic 
relationship continues to develop, the LMX is formed into either an LXR or an HXR; however, 
the initial interactions between the leader and the member are critical to the direction in which 
the LMX progresses. Leaders tend to assess follower competence to determine what tasks they 
believe employees are willing to and have the ability to accomplish (Dulebohn et al., 2012). As a 
result of this natural screening process that leaders subject employees to during the initial LMX 
encounters, the “follower’s response to the initial task assignment represents a primary stimulus 
evaluated by the leader” (Dulebohn et al. 2012, p. 1719). Followers who display positive 
characteristics and possess the ability to achieve the leader’s desired results will immediately be 
assumed to achieve the most demanding of tasks. This ability to perform complex tasks, follow 
directions well, and have a positive exchange with one’s leader will propel the LMX into the 
early stages of an HXR (Dulebohn et al., 2012). An employee’s inability to complete tasks or 
follow directions appropriately during the early stages of an LMX will result in the opposite 
reaction and move the dyadic relationship towards an LXR. 
      As displayed in Figure 4, there are multiple characteristics of a follower within an LMX. 
Competence is likely the most critical of the follower characteristics based on research and 
discoveries, which assert that the initial interactions will progress an LMX into either an HXR or 
an LXR (Byrne, 1971; Dulebohn et al., 2012; Fiske, 1993; Liden & Graen, 1980). Despite the 
importance of the first exchange between the leader and the employee, it is crucial to ensure all 
characteristics are given time to develop through social interactions and be assessed throughout 
the fruition of the LMX (Smith, 2016). The other essential features are agreeableness, 
conscientiousness, extraversion, neuroticism, openness, positive affectivity (PA), negative 
affectivity (NA), and locus of control (Dulebohn et al., 2012). These eight characteristics are 
essential to the LMX; however, it is competence and the initial interaction that can set the tone 
for the relationship (Dulebohn et al., 2012).
      Conscientiousness and overall emotional stability are the best personality trait predictors 
of job performance (Barrick & Mount, 1991, 2005; Lado & Alonso, 2017). Conscientiousness 
has been touted for decades as the best predictor for varying skill-level positions throughout any 
industry (Barrick & Mount, 2005). It has been a proven method to select employees who possess 
the natural ability to exert effort and have the innate emotional intelligence required for 
accomplishing detailed tasks. Ultimately, competence and conscientiousness give leaders insight 
into a member’s level of competence, achievement, and dependability; in other words, the ability 
and motivation to be successful (Barrick & Mount, 2005; Dulebohn et al., 2012).
      Phillips and Bedeian (1994) argued that of the follower characteristics, extraversion 
should be given an appropriate amount of attention as well. Extraverts naturally seek out 
exchanges with colleagues and supervisors that may feed their desire for more intense and 
sensation-rich relationships (Phillips & Bedeian, 1994). This constant need for exchanges will 
progress to higher frequency and potency levels with supervisors and colleagues over time to 
achieve the satisfaction of interacting and the potential for more fulfilling work-related tasks. 
This type of behavior will ultimately lead an LMX to achieve HXR-type behaviors. The 
exchange typically results in higher work engagement levels, positivity, and personal fulfillment, 
which supports the theory that extraversion is a crucial fundamental associated with HXRs (Shu 
& Lazatkhan, 2017). 
      Agreeableness refers to a characteristic that reflects trustworthiness, compassion, 
supportiveness, and an overall warm nature (Hassan et al., 2016). Agreeableness is closely 
associated with reciprocity behaviors (Perugini et al., 2003), which are a critical element of any 
LMX (Erdogan & Liden, 2002). At some point in the dyadic relationship, one or both of the 
members must be more agreeable than the other if for no other reason than prioritizing the 
organization’s need over individual interest (Lebowitz, 2015). There is value found in members 
who strategically express their ideas and concerns with empathy (Markman, 2012).
      Openness is directly related to overall creativity and one’s willingness and ability to 
influence change (Barrick & Mount, 2005; George & Zhou, 2001; LePine et al., 2000). A 
member with a general sense of openness about oneself will be more apt to participate and 
contribute to the team’s innovating. Open members will be more likely to enthusiastically pursue 
new tasks and roles within the group while accepting broader roles and more responsibility 
(Dulebohn et al., 2012). Not only will this help spur innovation and creativity, but openness also 
indicates to leaders that members are more likely to expand beyond the formal contracts of the 
role and position for which the employees were hired (Bernerth et al., 2007).
      Neuroticism is proven as a negative attribute in earlier studies on personality traits among 
team members (Barrick et al., 1998). Followers should display low levels of neurotic behaviors if 
they are to engage in LMXs that are trustworthy, social, and commitment-based teams 
(Dulebohn et al., 2012). Neurotic employee characteristics are most closely associated with team 
members who continuously showcase feelings such as anger, depression, anxiety, insecurities, 
and worry (Dulebohn et al., 2012).
      Positive affectivity (PA) refers to feelings of enthusiasm, positivity, and a general sense 
of optimism (Watson et al., 1988). Locke (1976) described an individual’s feelings and overall 
job satisfaction as PA when researching human motivation and goal setting theories. Team 
members identified as having high PA levels, similar to employees who display high levels of 
competence, are typically given favorable and more intense tasks from supervisors (Dulebohn et 
al., 2012). Employees who are excited and optimistic about the tasks they are completing are 
generally more pleasant to be around; therefore, LMXs tend to form into HXRs when PA is 
identified as a central characteristic (Sears & Hackett, 2011).
      Alternatively, negative affectivity (NA) is closely related to neuroticism. It describes a 
general feeling of mistrust, hostility, fatigue, irritability, and fear (Watson et al., 1988). Team 
members who display NA view events and individuals with a constant negative outlook 
(Bernerth et al., 2007; Watson & Clark, 1984). Leader-member exchanges that have members 
with high levels of NA will lack trust, effective working relationships, and satisfaction in their 
work performance (Dulebohn et al., 2012). The constant portrayal of negativity will 
automatically propel an LMX into an LXR. Furthermore, leaders will perceive members with 
NA less favorably and solidify a low-quality relationship (Hochwarter & Byrne, 2005; Hui et al., 
1999; Leary et al., 1986). 
      Leader Characteristics. The second category of antecedents in an LMX covers the leader 
characteristics. All three types of antecedents are valuable to the LMX; however, it has been 
argued that leaders’ characteristics and behaviors are more influential in determining whether an 
LMX is an HXR or an LXR (Dienesch & Liden 1986; Liden et al., 1997). Leaders’ behaviors 
substantially impact their followers’ reactions and perceptions of the leader and the organization 
(Lord & Maher, 1991; Nahrgang et al., 2009; Snodgrass et al., 1998). Of the five sub-categories 
to the leader characteristic antecedent, the most notable and the most researched subjects are 
transformational leadership and contingent reward behavior (Dulebohn et al., 2012). 
      Leader contingent reward behavior (LCRB) refers to the leader’s actions and directed 
toward the member that involves recognition, reward, and feedback (Dulebohn et al., 2012). 
Leader contingent reward behaviors are based on “economic and emotional exchanges” (Puni et 
al., 2018, p. 525). Leader contingent reward behaviors aim to clarify team members’ role 
requirements and apply beneficial and attainable employee outcomes. By focusing on contingent 
rewards, leaders possess the means to motivate and influence positive behaviors that satisfy the 
leaders’ expectations and move the team further towards achieving organizational goals (Puni et 
al., 2018). Additionally, leaders who establish a connection between specific behaviors and 
corresponding praise and rewards are more likely to develop precise work-related task 
requirements (Dulebohn et al., 2012). The clear link between action and compensation will not 
only create a high effort-performance expectancy exchange but will solidify the relationship 
based on positive rewards for positive output (Waldman et al., 1990). 
      High exchange relationships are built on the foundations of trust, respect, and 
reciprocated obligation (Brower et al., 2009). Similarly, the Army’s core principle of mission 
command is grounded in “mutual trust, shared understanding, and purpose” (Headquarters, 
2019b, p. 2). Teams that have a shared understanding with a stated reciprocal obligation are more 
likely to operate as an HXR due to followers receiving clear, concise, and positive feedback as 
well as praise and recognition for their efforts (Dulebohn et al., 2012; Wayne et al., 2002). 
      Transformational leadership is another element of the leadership characteristics that 
influence the LMX. Transformational leadership characteristics and behaviors encompass 
sacrificing individual gains with the group’s interest in mind, setting and living as an example for 
subordinates to emulate, and exercising high ethical standards at all times (Tse & Lam, 2012). 
Followers are more likely to respond positively to leaders who display transformational 
leadership behaviors as these behaviors have a higher probability of inspiring and motivating, 
which will, in turn, elicit a natural response for team members to further commit themselves to 
the unit and the LMX (Dulebohn et al., 2012). Finally, transformational leaders who utilize 
LCRBs by establishing clear expectations, praise, and recognition for positive output and display 
genuine care for their subordinates’ personal and professional lives will have a significantly 
higher potential for developing an HXR (Amor et al., 2019). 
      A leader’s expectation of their follower’s success is an equally applicable characteristic 
necessary for a leader to develop an HXR with team members. As reviewed in the follower 
characteristic competence and the introduction to LMX, the initial interactions of the LMX can 
set the tone for the duration of the social and professional relationship. Suppose leaders establish 
themselves as displaying a desire for their subordinates to succeed. In that case, they are more 
likely to develop a social exchange aspect to the LMX (Dulebohn et al., 2012). Introductory 
behaviors include assigning followers challenging but achievable goals, allowing more 
significant levels of autonomy than usual, and showing a genuine interest in followers’ growth 
and development. The anticipation of high-performing followers will become a self-fulfilling 
prophecy to an HXR as well as work-related outcomes as displayed in experimental and field 
research (Liden et al., 1993; McNatt, 2000; McNatt & Judge, 2004; Wayne et al., 1997).
      Interpersonal Relationship. Interpersonal relationships in this context refer to stimuli 
that influencer the leader and follower’s perceptions of one another, which can be a significant 
contributing factor to the early stages of the LMX (Dulebohn et al., 2012). Interpersonal 
relationships are explicitly referring to perceived affect, both positive and negative, similarities, 
trust, and influentialness (Dulebohn et al., 2012). The effectiveness of an interpersonal 
relationship has been a recurring theme over the last four decades. The series of exchanges of 
goods and rights do not develop HXRs; instead, it is the dyadic bond established by the leader 
and the member that produces high-quality transactions and result in HXRs (Graen et al., 1982; 
Kuhnert & Lewis, 1987; Landy, 1985). Psychological and social leadership theories also suggest 
that mutual relationships’ similarities will naturally lead to professional relational attractions and 
mutual bonds (Byrne, 1971). 
      Perceived similarities are a critical piece of an HXR. The similarity of personalities is 
directly correlated to the quality-levels of LMXs (Bauer & Green, 1996; Felfe & Schyns, 2002; 
Phillips & Bedeian, 1994). People are more likely to be drawn toward those who share similar 
interests, values, and outlooks in general (Dulebohn et al., 2012). Having similar views on issues, 
projects, tasks, and how to accomplish them within the workplace will enhance communicative 
abilities within the LMX and lead to more efficient outcomes (Fairhurst, 2001). Middle-level 
leaders who feel like they are similar to their supervisors have a better relationship with their 
supervisors than those who do not (Bauer & Green, 1996). The positive relationship directly 
influences organizational outcomes; therefore, it is a critical element of success (Gerstner & Day, 
1997). 
      Alternatively, extreme differences can create immediate problems within the dyadic 
relationship. Differences in values and outlooks can lead to conflict, withdrawal, and the 
establishing of barriers within the LMX (Uhl-Bien, 2006). Groups that lack perceived similarities 
are in danger of contributing less often or less truthfully, engaging less often in frequent 
communication, being less participative in the decision making process, and have a negative 
attitude toward teamwork and unit cohesion (Baugh & Graen, 1997; Kirchmeyer, 1995; 
Lichtenstein et al., 1997; Zenger & Lawrence, 1989).
      As an element of interpersonal relationships, affect is equally crucial between members 
of an LMX as it is essential as a follower characteristic. Affect in the interpersonal relationship 
stage refers to creating an environment within the LMX and the organization where members 
experience elation, motivation, enthusiasm, and excitement to be at work and complete tasks as a 
team (Joseph et al., 2015). Establishing a climate of positive affect within the LMX facilitates a 
capable group on multiple levels. First, positive affect and liking drive the mood contagion 
processes (Bono & Ilies, 2006). Mood contagion theories suggest that charismatic leaders 
consistently express positive emotions. Those same positive emotions are replicated by the 
leader’s followers (Bono & Ilies, 2006). The transfer of emotions from leader to follower is 
depicted in Figure 5.
Figure 5 
Leader Charisma and the Emotional Contagion of Positive Emotions from Leaders to Followers
 
Note. Reprinted from “Charisma, Positive Emotions, and Mood Contagion,” by J. E. Bono, & R. 
Ilies, 2006, The Leadership Quarterly, 17(4), p. 318 
(https://doi.org/10.1016/j.leaqua.2006.04.008). Reprinted with permission.
      Figure 5 details the process of the transfer of positive emotions from a charismatic leader 
to a follower. Step 1 details the link between leader charisma and the outward expression of 
positive emotions within the work environment. Step 2 shows the positive emotions impacting 
both follower mood and behavioral outcomes in the workplace. Step 3 is the perceived 
effectiveness of the leader as rated by the followers. Finally, in Step 4, the link between leader 
charisma to the expression of positive emotions affects the follower’s mood. Ultimately, the 
affect developed within the LMX between both dyadic members of the unit is shown (Bono & 
Ilies, 2006). 
      Ingratiation is another element of interpersonal relationships that focuses on perceived 
affect and liking. Ingratiation is the act of behaviors of either member of the LMX that are 
executed explicitly to improve one’s likability and interpersonal attractiveness to the other 
member of the LMX (Deluga & Perry, 1994). Ingratiation is divided into three sub-categories, 
according to Jones (1964):
*	Other Enhancement: Subordinates will find a way to speak highly of their supervisor 
in front of or around their supervisor’s superiors. The intent is to improve one’s 
interpersonal attractiveness by exaggerating their leader’s traits, characteristics, or 
actions. In turn, leaders have a high probability of having a positive effect on their 
followers. It is human nature to like someone who thinks highly of their leader. 
Followers may also go out of their way to tell someone they believe will relay the 
message in casual conversation.
*	Conformity in Opinion: Members of an LMX may choose to conform to their dyadic 
partner’s thoughts or values. The intent behind this action is to focus on perceived 
similarities and the likelihood that the follower’s leader will be naturally drawn to 
like the member more as a person if they share similar views (Jones, 1964). Other 
variations of this approach include allowing the leader to convince the follower of 
their beliefs, regardless of how they feel. Followers may choose to disagree about 
seemingly meaningless topics to establish that they do not aimlessly believe 
everything the leader is saying.
*	Self-Presentation: Self-presentation is the action where either member of the LMX 
displays themselves, their skills, or their attributes in a way that they believe fits the 
other member’s ideal leader or follower. The member can choose to ask for advice, 
reveal personal opinions, or find other flattery methods to help gain the trust of their 
dyadic partner. The status level between the ingratiator and the opposite member can 
be the difference in approaching this method.
      Similar to the self-presentation method of ingratiation, self-promotion is a critical 
component of the interpersonal relationships aspect of the LMX. Self-promotion methods are 
proven to have PA on the quality of an LMX between a leader and a follower (Park, 2017). 
Ingratiation and self-promotion are “tactics that focus on the desire to be liked and to be viewed 
as competent, respectively” (Dulebohn et al., 2012, p. 1724). Witty (2018) presented five 
methods to employ self-promotion without being viewed as aggressively pursuing self-interest, 
which will lead to distrust within the LMX (Dulebohn et al., 2012). The five methods are: be 
aware of one’s audience, be gracious with compliments, be generous, and include recognition of 
others, be interesting, and be honest (Witty, 2018). 
      As a part of interpersonal relationships, assertiveness refers to the aggressive pursuit of 
attaining perceived likeability from one’s leader or other members of their LMX (Dulebohn et 
al., 2012). As previously mentioned, aggressive dreams and attempts to force the dyadic 
relationship into something it is not are negatively viewed by leaders. These over-aggressive 
attempts to be liked will give the other members perceptions of dishonesty, distrust, and an 
indication of ulterior motives (Dulebohn et al., 2012). 
      Leader trust is the final component of interpersonal relationships and an essential slice of 
the bond that creates a high-functioning exchange relationship versus a low-functioning 
relationship. The initial theory on LMXs stated that their leaders chose group members based on 
“(a) skill and competence, (b) extent to which they can be trusted, and (c) motivation to assume 
greater responsibility” (Kaila, 2006, p. 150). Trust was the essential element of the initial theory. 
Leaders had to trust members’ skill and competence and their motivation to assume greater 
responsibility. These nonperishable skills would carry over into their LMXs (Dulebohn et al., 
2012). As dyadic partners initially establish themselves with one another, trust is an interpersonal 
relationship trait based on members’ perceived dependability and competence (Lewicki et al., 
2006; McAllister, 1995). Once the LMX moves beyond the group relationship’s initial stages, 
trust is solidified or broken based on affect, mutual obligation, caring, and concern (McAllister, 
1995). 
      Contextual Variables. Contextual variables in the structure of the LMX refer to the 
potential internal and external factors that influence the viability of the LMX (Dulebohn et al., 
2012). Variables include the LMX measure used, the LMX work setting, the participant’s 
location, and the dyadic partners’ cultural dimensions (Dulebohn et al., 2012). Dienesch and 
Liden (1986) also believed that the leader’s power and the number of employees within the 
supervisor’s immediate domain were contextual influences. As previously mentioned in this 
dissertation, the two primary models of LMX measurement, the LMX-MD, and the LMX-7, can 
be used to access the dynamics of the LMX from two different perspectives.
      LMX Consequences. The consequences of the level in which the LMX exists are 
paramount to an individual’s career success and an organization’s ability to operate at a peak 
performance level (Wayne et al., 1999; Erdogan & Bauer, 2015). The ultimate outcomes, or 
consequences, of high-quality LMXs, are most often directly associated with organizational 
commitment, employee satisfaction, and turnover intention (Erdogan & Bauer, 2015). It is worth 
noting that turnover intention, which refers to how much an employee wants to leave the 
organization instead of actual turnover rates due to numerous variables, is more indicative of 
organizational commitment (Gerstner & Day, 1997). Erdogan and Bauer’s (2015) summary of 
antecedents and consequences breaks the LMX consequences down into three primary 
categories: job attitudes, behaviors, and career success.
      Job Attitudes. Job attitudes can be summed up by assessing job satisfaction and 
employee commitment levels (Erdogan & Bauer, 2015). Not only are job attitudes the most 
frequently correlated results of effective LMXs, but they are also clear indicators of low turnover 
rates, high levels of organizational citizenship behaviors, and overall measures of job satisfaction 
(Erdogan & Bauer, 2015; Gerstner & Day, 1995; Ilies et al., 2007). Furthermore, in a study 
investigating the connection between leader-member exchanges and nurses working at three 
major general hospitals, LMXs proved to significantly influence job satisfaction (Han & Woo, 
2018). The effects of effective LMXs resulted in nurses’ increased job attitudes, which fed into 
positive organizational cultures and enhanced work engagement (Han & Woo, 2018). The cross-
industry results have consistently proven that the consequences of positive and engaged 
employees, through the measure of job attitudes, employee motivation, and organizational 
effectiveness, indicate that HXRs and transformational leadership are critical elements of 
effective human resource management methods (Fernet et al., 2015; Han & Woo, 2018). 
      Behaviors. Leader-member exchanges are proven to mold employees to fit organizational 
cultures (Hofmann et al., 2003). Employee behaviors will mimic the environments where they 
are developed and operate regularly (Erdogan & Bauer, 2015; Hofmann et al., 2003). Leaders 
must establish and grow organizational cultures that will develop employees to become citizens 
of their teams and highly valued members of the LMXs for which they work.
      Employee behaviors vary significantly as the strength of the dyadic relationship within 
the LMX fluctuates (Anand et al., 2017). An influential factor in this concept is the distance 
between the leader and the member. In scenarios where the dyadic partners are not co-located, 
the strength of the LMX carries more significance than when dyadic partners are geographically 
co-located (Anand et al., 2017). Positive and effective leadership requires continual leader 
engagement as no matter how far the LMX is spread apart, the LMX requires high levels of 
“mutual trust, liking, and reciprocal influence, and resource exchanges [that] extend beyond the 
formal contract” (Anand et al., 2017, p. 489). The high levels of influence and mutual trust 
within the LMX will undoubtedly lead to positive organizational outcomes, such as positive 
organizational citizenship behaviors, employee role acceptance, promotion rates, and the 
likelihood of turnover (Anand et al., 2017; Dulebohn et al., 2012; Erdogan & Bauer, 2015; 
Erdogan & Liden, 2002). 
      Career Success. The leader-member exchange theory suggests that leaders establish 
personalized dyadic relationships with their peers, subordinates, and supervisors (Dulebohn et 
al., 2012). Neither member within the LMX dictate high-functioning dyadic relationships; 
instead, it is an idiosyncratic relationship between every member within an organization 
(Rousseau et al., 2006). Within these idiosyncratic dyadic relationships, members can express 
their needs for personal and professional self-development. One employee may choose to work 
swing-shifts while other employees may choose to be afforded further educational or 
professional growth opportunities. Whatever the employee’s desire, it is only possible through 
stellar performances within the workplace coupled with a robust social exchange and a high 
functioning LMX (Ford & Newstrom, 1999; Frank, 1985; Rousseau et al., 2006). 
      Idiosyncratic deals (i-deals) made within the LMX are afforded to organizations that 
consistently achieve results beyond typical expectations to foster employee engagement (Davis 
& Heijden, 2018). Organizations typically can gauge their success against a plethora of metrics 
that compare them against others within their industries or value themselves to their 
shareholders; however, an individual’s career success is an extremely subjective concept that has 
nearly no range to it (Denning, 2016). i-deals are individualized plans or rewards that offer 
employees incentives to operate beyond their contractual obligations (Rousseau et al., 2006). i-
deals are primarily negotiated and agreed upon by the leader and the member. i-deals contain the 
following elements:
*	Individually negotiated: i-deals are arrangements or deals made between an employee 
and their leader. These arrangements are specific to the needs of the employee. They 
typically vary from any agreements made with other colleagues in one’s organization. 
An employee’s perceived market value will be the driving force of this arrangement 
and allow individual employees more or less negotiating power than their peers 
(Bartol & Martin, 1989; Rousseau et al., 2006).
*	Heterogeneous: Most of the terms agreed upon within an i-deal are specific to the 
leader-member relationship and the member’s idea of career development and 
success. Terms of the agreements can be made according to benchmarks or 
performance measures. Incentives and exceptional circumstances can only be realized 
when employees are operating effectively. Just as positive performance output 
equates to career success, low work quality can result in the retraction of particular 
circumstances afforded to team members (Rousseau et al., 2006).
*	Benefitting both employer and employee: i-deals are a promotional concept that aims 
to incentivize career success and highly efficient LMX relationships. i-deals serve the 
interests of the organization by encouraging productivity and effectiveness, just as 
they serve employees by offering varying forms of career success opportunities and 
rewards. The ultimate goal from the arrangement stems from an organization 
attracting and retaining high-quality employees while offering members their desired 
resources, in whatever form that takes (Rousseau et al., 2006). 
      Throughout the review of the positive influencers HXRs have on employees, 
organizations, and overall efficiency levels, there has been a recurring theme. High-quality 
LMXs, or HXRs, consist of dyadic members who show desirable attitudes, behaviors, and 
actions (Erdogan & Bauer, 2015). Employees who emulate the characteristics and attributes 
required to operate in HXRs have a significantly higher probability of experiencing career 
success and an overall positive work experience with their company (Erdogan & Bauer, 2015). It 
is equally important to stress the strength of the individual characteristics of persons who make 
up the dyadic relationship. Mood contagion has been reviewed as a significant factor in the LMX 
and the LMX’s level of motivation, positivity, and effectiveness in the workplace (Bono & Ilies, 
2006). At the root of these characteristics is each dyadic member’s ability to regulate and focus 
their emotional intelligence levels (Jain, 2018). Only through a sufficient grasp of emotional 
intelligence can a leader guide and influence the LMX to succeed (Jain, 2018). 
Emotional Intelligence
      A critical element of an employee’s ability to remain resilient, positive, and engaged in 
their personal and professional lives is their ability to realize and regulate their feelings and 
emotions (Jain, 2018). Furthermore, emotional intelligence (EI) refers to one’s ability to 
discriminate among one’s feelings and emotions and execute an appropriate output to the 
situation and persons involved in the exchange (Salovey & Mayer, 1990). Leaders and followers 
within the Iowa Army Recruiting Companies should identify, regulate, and focus their emotional 
and physiological responses to be effective in the United States Military (Sewell, 2009). Army 
leaders must provide purpose, direction, and motivation both in and outside of their unit; 
therefore, having emotional intelligence as a core competency in leadership and followership is 
imperative (Sewell, 2009). Emotional Intelligence is built upon the five constructs of cognizance, 
self-regulation, intrinsic motivation, empathy, and social skills. When the five emotional 
competencies are aggregated, they form a framework that takes leaders and followers from 
having separate, individual understandings to a competent team (Jain, 2018). Cherniss & 
Goleman’s (2001) framework of emotional competencies is displayed in Figure 6.
Figure 6 
Framework of Emotional Competencies
 
Note. Framework of emotional competencies. Reprinted from Cherniss, C. & Goleman, D. 
(2001). The emotionally intelligent workplace: How to select for, measure, and improve 
emotional intelligence in individuals, groups, and organizations, p. 28. San Francisco: Jossey-
Bass. Reprinted with permission.
      The 20 competencies, nested within four primary categories, establish the entire spectrum 
of traits, characteristics, and skills required of an individual to master emotional intelligence. 
Competencies range between personal, internal, social, or external levels and include recognizing 
and regulating one’s emotions (Jain, 2018). In addition to the 20 competencies, there are five 
core components, as seen below:
*	Cognizance: The ability to recognize and perceive one’s emotions. In addition to 
identifying one’s emotions, individuals must also identify one emotion’s effect on 
others (Jain, 2018).
*	Self-regulation: Self-regulating refers to one’s ability to manage their emotional, 
physiological, and physical output as dictated by an activating event (Jain, 2018).
*	Internal motivation: Also referred to as intrinsic motivation, internal motivation is the 
drive to pursue one’s goals and passions for personal reasons instead of focusing on 
incentives and rewards (Jain, 2018).
*	Empathy: Having the ability to realize others’ motivating factors and values. Empathy 
is a necessary skill for a leader to inspire and influence their team members to achieve 
high-efficiency levels (Jain, 2018).
*	Social skills: Leaders and followers must have the ability to manage relationships 
within their organization and networks (Jain, 2018).
      Mayer and Salovey introduced four branches of their emotional intelligence model in 
their framework of emotional intelligence (1997). Like Goleman’s approach, Mayer and Salovey 
defined these four mental abilities: “(i) perceptions of emotion, (ii) use of emotion to facilitate 
thought, (iii) understanding of emotion, and (iv) management of emotion” (Brackett et al., p. 91). 
The successful mastery of these four branches is linked with employee’s ability to interact with 
colleagues, manage conflict and workplace stressors, and improve overall job performance 
(Ashkanasy & Daus, 2005; Lopes et al., 2006). Employees who better grasped the four mental 
abilities receive better peer and supervisor evaluations, have greater stress tolerance, and display 
significantly higher levels of leadership potentials than those who lack emotional intelligence 
(Lopes et al., 2006).
      Leaders who display emotional intelligence are associated with supporting their 
employees, their organization, and the organization’s goals (Brackett et al., 2011). Regardless of 
which model of emotional intelligence leaders choose, there is a clear connection between 
positive and effective leadership and one’s emotional intelligence level (Brackett et al., 2011). 
Kerr et al. (2006) proved that job performance and leadership potential were directly related to 
their subject’s emotional intelligence level in a review of senior executive leaders. It has been 
established as a clear indicator of one’s potential to exercise positive and effective leadership 
behaviors (Brackett et al., 2011). 
Summary
	Effective use of goal-setting requires leaders to be cognitive of their team’s ability to 
strategically set goals that will drive productivity and produce high achieving employees (Locke, 
1968). The traits referred to in Locke’s (1968) goal-setting theory embodies the fundamentals 
associated with effective leadership behaviors, emotional intelligence, and one’s ability to 
leverage high exchange relationships within their organization. Locke’s goal-setting theory 
suggests that employees will be more successful when they are given a difficult yet manageable 
goal to achieve (Ones et al., 2018). Yukl (2012) described the components of his first meta-
category of leadership behaviors similar to Locke. Yukl stressed the importance of giving team 
members manageable goals. Additionally, Yukl highlighted the leader’s responsibility to clarify, 
plan, monitor, and problem-solve the task-oriented goals assigned to employees. Just as the 
Army describes effective leadership as providing purpose, direction, and motivation 
(Headquarters, 2019a), Yukl’s first meta-category is rooted in the same concepts of active leader 
engagement and consistent interaction (Yukl, 2012).
      Yukl’s (2012) concept of leader engagement at every level is shared by Erdogan & 
Bauer’s (2015) theory on leader-member exchanges. Erdogan, Bauer, and Dulebohn et al. (2012) 
set the framework for successful engagements between the leaders and the organization’s 
members. Units that operate in the HXR realm of the LMX concept work synchronously under 
mutual understandings of trust, respect, and reciprocated obligation (Brower et al., 2009). When 
HXRs are established and operational, members will strive to achieve the goals set forth by the 
leader. Leaders give more explicit pictures as to the purpose and end-state of the goal. In-turn, 
followers receive praise and recognition for their efforts to achieve organizational goals 
(Dulebohn et al., 2012). Goals must be achievable and challenging, but even more critical, the 
dyadic relationship must be established and functioning at a high level if the goals are to be 
achieved (Dulebohn et al., 2012).
      Finally, one of the core fundamentals required of both the leader and the follower in a 
group operating under the goal-setting concept is emotional intelligence. Emotional intelligence 
has been positively associated with people’s ability to function at higher levels in their personal 
and professional lives (Brackett et al., 2011). Leaders must be willing to set goals for their 
employees that are difficult but achievable (Locke & Latham, 2019); however, the key to 
successfully managing the stressors and associated difficulties with achieving high goals can be 
seen in one’s level of EI (Bracket et al., 2011). Not only are team members expected to have 
high levels of EI, but supervisors at every level must embody the traits associated with EI if they 
are to lead their teams to be successful (Bracket et al., 2011). Through the combination of goal-
setting, active LMX, driven by leaders who embody efficacious leadership behaviors, and 
emotionally intelligent team members and supervisors operating synchronously, units can truly 
realize organizational success.
	Iowa Army Recruiting Companies’ positive and effective leadership methods in 
USAREC mirror the concepts identified throughout this literature review. The Army directs 
leaders to provide purpose, direction, and motivation (Headquarters, 2019a) as well as build 
teams based on mutual trust and understanding (Headquarters, 2019b) to achieve the mission. 
While the Army may categorize their goals as missions, the core concepts remain the same. 
Through the successful implementation of these fundamentals identified in this literature review, 
Iowa Army Recruiting Companies can succeed.
	The ideas and methods covered in the literature review will support the dissertation and 
set the framework for the following chapters. The next section will cover the research method 
associated with evaluating positive and effective leadership within Iowa Army Recruiting 
Companies. The research method consisted of a qualitative research design that assisted in 
assessing the Des Moines, Northern Iowa, and Iowa City Army Recruiting Companies.


Chapter 3: Research Method
      The problem explored in this study was how a lack of effective and positive leadership in 
USAREC led to the inability to maximize Recruiter productivity and effectiveness to achieve 
mission success in Fiscal Year 2018 from Iowa Army Recruiting Companies’ perspective. 
Analyzing one set of sub-organizations within USAREC gave insight into why USAREC, for the 
first time since 2005, missed its combined mission by 11,500 Soldiers (Baldor, 2018). The 
reoccurrence of the United States Army’s failure to achieve its recruiting goal impacts and would 
become very problematic for the United States’ current national security strategy (President of 
the United States, 2017). 
      The three recruiting companies identified in the study were ideal research candidates. 
Historical data showed extreme fluctuations in mission achievement over the last five years. 
Theoretically, successful behaviors should be easily identifiable and replicable; therefore, 
recruiting managers should implement strategies that will definitively lead to success. 
Unfortunately, after nearly two decades at war, Army Recruiters have begun to see a decline in 
U.S. citizens’ propensity and ability to enlist in the Army (Spoehr & Handy, 2018). Recruiting 
managers have reverted to working Recruiters 6 days a week for upwards of 10 hours a day to 
make up shortfalls and achieve their missions (Myers, 2018). Recent increases in work hours and 
extreme levels of applied pressure are indicative of historically destructive behaviors in 
USAREC (McChesney, 2009). During the last recruiting surge, toxic leadership methods led to a 
catastrophic loss, with five Soldiers committing suicide in the Houston Recruiting Battalion 
(McChesney, 2009). As the organization reorganized after missing its mission in 2018, toxic 
leadership behaviors began surfacing – indicating a reversion to toxic management techniques. 
      The purpose of this phenomenological qualitative study was to explore effective and 
positive leadership practices that may be applied to maximize USAREC Recruiter and Station  
Commander productivity and effectiveness and allow them to achieve their mission, from the 
perspective of Northern Iowa, Des Moines, and Iowa City Army Recruiting Companies. Army 
recruiting companies in Iowa account for three of the fifty-four companies in the 3rd Recruiting 
Brigade. USAREC is comprised of five separate recruiting brigades (USAREC, n.d.a.); 
therefore, narrowing the scope to analyze the errors associated with Iowa Army Recruiting 
Companies allowed for greater insightfulness regarding how to re-focus USAREC into an 
organization that achieves success as it did for the 12 years before 2018. 
      This phenomenological qualitative study was conducted to analyze the leadership 
attributes, managerial methodologies, organizational citizenship behaviors, and training and 
resources that result in successes or shortfalls within three selected Army recruiting companies. 
Establishing the critical fundamentals associated with the constructive and fruitful behaviors may 
eliminate the costly fluctuations these companies have experienced while streamlining them into 
an approach that will deliver consistently positive results. This study was also implemented to 
analyze what managers are doing effectively to facilitate the recruiting process and review and 
define behaviors that keep the respective recruiting companies from achieving success. 
      The primary qualitative research method used was the semistructured interview process 
with open-ended questions to elicit enough data to reach the proper saturation level. Critical 
concepts, phenomena, and ideas captured management methods, level of influence, subordinates’ 
perceptions of their leaders, organizational commitment, levels of power, and expertise levels. 
Participants included active and reserve component Recruiters and recruiting Station 
Commanders from the three Army recruiting companies covering the State of Iowa. The research 
questions answered were:
Q1.	To what extent does positive and effective leadership play a role in mission 
success or failure in Iowa Army Recruiting Companies from Recruiters’ and 
Station  Commanders’ perspective?
Q2.	How do Recruiters’ attitudes and overall comprehension of Army recruiting 
practices influence their ability to be productive and effective in achieving 
recruitment goals in Iowa Army Recruiting Companies from Recruiters’ and 
Station Commanders’ perspective?
Q3.	What are the Iowa Army Recruiting Company Leadership Teams’ dominant 
leadership characteristics from the Recruiters’ and Station  Commanders’ 
perspective?
Q4.	What are the driving factors for Army Recruiters’ productivity and effectiveness 
in Iowa Army Recruiting Companies, from Recruiters’ and Station  Commanders’ 
perspective?
	Chapter 3 includes discussing the research methodology and design, the population and 
sample, the materials and instrumentation, assumptions, limitations and delimitations, and the 
ethical assurances for those involved in the research design. The chosen research design was 
qualitative. The researcher used the interview method as the primary source of data collection.
Research Methodology and Design
      The research method for this study was phenomenological. The method relied upon 
interviewing to collect the required data. Interviews were conducted with Recruiters within the 
recruiting stations from the three Iowa Army recruiting companies. 
      A phenomenological qualitative research method was the most appropriate design for the 
problem identified in this dissertation. The problem addressed in this study was a lack of 
effective and positive leadership in Iowa Army recruiting companies and the associated impact 
leadership has on a recruiting station’s ability to achieve its assigned mission. Effective 
leadership is a “key analyst of organizational success or failure while examining the factors that 
lead to organizational success” (Madanchian et al., 2017, p. 1043). Using individual interviews 
to determine how positive and effective leadership impacts Recruiters and Station Commanders 
regularly gave insight on whether these were the key differentiating factors in Iowa Army 
recruiting companies’ success in recent years. Iowa Army recruiting companies play their role as 
three of nearly 250 recruiting companies throughout the nation; therefore, if USAREC is to be 
successful, every recruiting company must achieve their respective missions. If USAREC fails to 
accomplish its mission, a direct negative impact on the United States’ current national security 
strategy will be realized (President of the United States, 2017). 
      The research questions that stemmed from this dissertation were best answered using 
qualitative phenomenological research methods. Determining how positive and effective 
leadership influences an organization’s successes or failures can be a unique process and 
potentially subjective by its very nature (Madanchian et al., 2017). Researchers have argued over 
one’s ability to research an intangible trait. Madanchian et al. (2017) stated that the vast majority 
of researchers agree that an individual’s ability to influence a team to achieve organizational 
goals is a proven measure of a leader’s effectiveness. Two proven methods, the LMX-7 (Graen 
& Uhl-Bien, 1995) and the Perceived Leadership Integrity Scale (PLIS; Craig & Gustafson, 
1998), provide questionnaires to facilitate answering the dissertation’s research questions. This 
researcher provided an interview guide that pulled elements from the LMX-7 and PLIS and 
focuses them on Army and USAREC-style positive and effective leadership, as described in 
ADP 6-22 (Headquarters, 2019a), Army Leadership, ADP 6-0 (Headquarters, 2019b), Mission 
Command, USAREC Training Circular 5-01 (Headquarters, 2017a), Mission Command, 
USAREC Manual 3 (Headquarters, 2019e), Recruiting, and USAREC Manual 3-0 Recruiting 
Operations (Headquarters, 2019g).
      The researcher utilized elements from the LMX-7 questionnaire and the adapted 30-
question PLIS survey in addition to questions focused on leadership in Army recruiting to 
develop the SSI. The interview facilitated the researcher’s ability to determine how well 
recruiting stations work together, how their leaders influence their success or failures, and how 
positive and effective leadership has influenced their current and historical achievements. The 
interviews provided the researcher with enough data to cover multiple aspects and measures of 
leadership qualities that should determine answers to the research questions. Applying a 
semistructured approach to interviewing participants will help clarify areas of ambiguity 
typically associated with the study of leadership behaviors (Graen & Uhl-Bien, 1995). The study 
of leadership remains one of the more difficult items to analyze and assess objectively (Graen & 
Uhl-Bien, 1995); however, covering a sample that spreads throughout the entire state and 
multiple leaders should help narrow trends that will assist with answering the research questions. 
The personalized section of the interview that focuses on Army and USAREC leadership styles 
aligns with Madanchian et al.’s (2017) suggestion for a researcher to evaluate what makes a 
leader effective in a given industry.
      The researcher selected a qualitative phenomenological research design as the best 
approach to assess positive and effective leadership behaviors in Iowa Army recruiting 
companies based on multiple items. Quantitative performance reviews and measures of an 
organization’s employees can be complicated when assessing a leader’s influence on the team’s 
success (Whitehurst, 2015). This dissertation aimed to determine what influence positive and 
effective leadership has on Iowa Army recruiting companies instead of objectively reviewing 
their assigned mission and subsequent accomplishments. Participants were asked interview 
questions based on the LMX-7 questionnaire to determine their leader-member exchange 
interactions. The interviewees were asked to expand upon their responses after each question. 
Questions were created to analyze how a leader’s behaviors affected participants’ job 
performance and organizational citizenship behaviors. The multiple elements’ aggregation into 
one interview gave the researcher the data required to answer the research questions.
      Quantitative research was not selected as an option based on its reliance on objective 
empirical observations and measures (Martin & Bridgmon, 2012). Of the viable qualitative 
research methods, phenomenological research proved to be the best method. In this study, a 
sample of less than 25 provided an opportunity to elicit the necessary number of descriptions of 
Recruiters’ lived experiences. According to Creswell (2013), phenomenological designs are best 
suited for a sample ranging from 3 to 10 respondents. The approximate number of 15 participants 
for this study provided an above-average number of participants for a phenomenological research 
design but less than the appropriate number typically used in a ground theory research design 
(Creswell, 2013). 
      Grounded theory was discarded because of the overall purpose of the research design. 
The researcher intended to determine the influence of positive and effective leadership on Iowa 
Army Recruiting Companies, which are spread throughout demographically and geographically 
diverse regions. Grounded theory focuses more on explaining new processes based on 
phenomena. In contrast, this dissertation was conducted to analyze the pre-existing phenomenon 
of positive and effective leadership within recruiting companies (Lingard et al., 2008). The 
researcher intended on exploring the influence of leadership behaviors that lead to success or 
failure among Iowa Army Recruiting Companies rather than determining if there is a grounded 
theory, or pattern that solely leads to success (Lingard et al., 2008).
      Narrative research and ethnography approaches were considered as potential avenues 
during this phase of the research design. Narrative research was considered an option as it would 
aim to explore individuals’ lives within the Iowa Army Recruiting Companies (Creswell, 2013). 
The adverse outcomes typically associated with narrative research approaches are closely 
associated with what makes them powerful qualitative research tools—the interviewer develops 
a narrative story that focuses on scenarios, events, and activities related to one to two individuals 
(Creswell, 2013). This research design intended to capture an aggregated understanding of what 
makes Recruiters successful throughout the 12 recruiting stations covering the State of Iowa. 
Narrative research methods were too narrow in scope to capture the lived experiences of the 
participants.
      Ethnographic research methods aim to examine a single culture-sharing group by 
analyzing observations, interviews, and artifacts (Creswell, 2013). Ethnography was considered 
an option but discarded due to the researcher’s inability to fully collect materials and conduct the 
processes typically associated with ethnography. In ethnography, a researcher should either 
visually observe subjects or obtain communication exchanges between subjects to conduct an 
ethnographic analysis (Creswell, 2013). In this study, the researcher could not realistically 
integrate into 12 recruiting stations to observe how Recruiters interact with their leaders to 
establish the data necessary for proper analysis. Other forms of communicative data and 
exchanges would have been improbable to obtain, given that it is a military organization with 
protected levels of communication and safety protocols.
      Case study methods were not selected based on the difficulties associated with retrieving 
previously documented cases of leadership successes and failures in Iowa Army Recruiting 
Companies. Additionally, the amount of time to achieve data saturation in a single research 
subject, or multiple subjects, would have been unrealistic for the researcher to complete. One of 
the primary methods associated with case study research requires researchers to analyze subjects 
through direct observation methods (Woodside, 2016). Other methods involved analyzing a 
subject’s interpretation of operational data and a thorough analysis of historical documents and 
data associated with a subject (Woodside, 2016). Case study research did not prove as a practical 
research method due to these requirements. 
      The purpose of this phenomenological qualitative study was to identify the effective and 
positive leadership practices within Iowa Army recruiting companies that are being utilized to 
maximize Recruiter productivity and effectiveness to bring Northern Iowa, Des Moines, and 
Iowa City Army Recruiting Companies to levels of efficiency that would allow them to achieve 
their mission. First-person reporting on lived experiences was the best fit for qualitative research 
design (Moustakas, 2011). Leveraging phenomenological research principles allowed the 
researcher to execute one-on-one interviews with randomly dispersed subjects amongst the three 
Iowa Army Recruiting Companies. The phenomenological qualitative research method was 
selected as the best approach to achieve enough accurate data to determine the impact of positive 
and effective leadership within Iowa Army Recruiting Companies.
Population and Sample
      The theoretical population for this study was comprised of United States Army Soldiers 
who are serving as Regular Army or Army Reserve Recruiters and Station Commanders. The 
target population selected came from the three Iowa Army recruiting companies responsible for 
Army recruiting efforts in Iowa: Northern Iowa Recruiting Company, Des Moines Recruiting 
Company, and Iowa City Recruiting Company. Northern Iowa Recruiting Company included 28 
79R Recruiters and Department of the Army Selected Recruiters (DASR). Des Moines 
Recruiting Company had a total of 35 79R Recruiters and DASRs. Finally, Iowa City Recruiting 
Company had 38 79R Recruiters and DASRs assigned to their unit. The primary factor for 
selecting the target population was the accessibility and availability of personnel who could 
serve as respondents in this qualitative phenomenological study. Attempting to extend the 
population to include the entire command was not a recommended approach as it would have 
proved challenging to obtain and validate given the expanse of USAREC based on Creswell’s 
(2013) recommendations for selecting the sampling frame.
      The population selected met the intent of the research study for multiple reasons. First, 
the population size encompassed the entirety of the Iowa Army Recruiting Companies, which the 
research was designed to analyze. Second, the sampling was achieved through single-stage 
sampling procedures. The researcher had direct access to the names in the population as needed 
(Creswell, 2013). Finally, based on the three Iowa Army recruiting companies’ organizational 
structure, random sampling was achieved at its full potential. The three companies are made-up 
of 12 recruiting stations. The 12 recruiting stations all had similar make-ups of a single Station 
Commander and a specific number of Recruiters. 
      The selected population for this research design was appropriate. It met the purpose of 
identifying the effective and positive leadership practices within Iowa Army recruiting 
companies that are being leveraged to maximize Recruiter productivity and effectiveness. The 
selected population was well-suited to address the research questions on the role positive and 
effective leadership plays in mission success or failure. The population helped facilitate the 
examination of Recruiters’ attitudes and overall comprehension of Army recruiting practices and 
clarify the Iowa Army Recruiting Company Leadership Teams’ dominant characteristics. 
Finally, the selected population was ideal for highlighting the primary motivators and incentives 
for Army Recruiters in Iowa to achieve mission success.
      There is ambiguity related to the exact required sample size for qualitative research 
designs (Vasileiou et al., 2018); however, Creswell (1998) recommended between five and 25 
participants for a phenomenological design. The researcher aimed to conduct interviews with 18 
participants to ensure data saturation is realized. The end goal of a qualitative research sampling 
method is to achieve data saturation and ensure the data collected provide a valid representation 
of the population being studied (Luborsky & Rubinstein, 1995). It was essential for the research 
design’s integrity that the maximum number of samples is included to achieve a valid population 
representation (Luborsky & Rubinstein, 1995). 
      Random sampling was utilized to achieve the recommended number of five to 25 
participants described by Creswell (1998). The sample was selected from 12 Army recruiting 
stations across the three companies that comprise the Iowa Army recruiting units. In those 12 
stations, there were a total of 101 Soldiers. The 101 Soldiers were not broken down further. All 
Soldiers were equally eligible to be selected into the sample population. These 101 Soldiers 
included 32 Soldiers who were career Recruiters and held the military occupational specialty 
(MOS) 79R. Sixty-nine Soldiers were considered Department of the Army Selected Recruiters 
(DASR). There were ten recruiting Station Commanders and 91 Recruiters within the total target 
population.
      Using Google number randomizer, the researcher selected between all 101 potential 
research subjects and identified the first 25 Soldiers who were selected. The purpose of choosing 
25 random Soldiers to participate in the research design was to achieve a minimum number of 
five, with a potential for no more than 25 respondents. The sample’s makeup included 10 of the 
12 available recruiting stations, three of the 10 Station Commanders, and 20 of the 69 Recruiters. 
The Recruiters were comprised of eight 79R Recruiters, three 79R Station Commanders, and 14 
DASRs. 
      The selected sample for this research design was appropriate. It met the purpose of 
identifying the effective and positive leadership practices within Iowa Army recruiting 
companies that are being leveraged to maximize Recruiter productivity and effectiveness. The 
selected sample was well-suited to address the research questions on the role positive and 
effective leadership plays in mission success or failure. The selection helped facilitate the 
examination of Recruiters’ attitudes and overall comprehension of Army recruiting practices and 
clarify the Iowa Army Recruiting Company Leadership Teams’ dominant characteristics. 
Finally, the selected sample was ideal for highlighting the primary motivators and incentives for 
Army Recruiters in Iowa to achieve mission success.
      Through their Department of Defense Enterprise E-mail (DODEE) accounts and phone 
calls, the selected sample population was notified that they were chosen to participate in this 
research project. The identified Recruiters’ names and locations were obtained by contacting 
their higher headquarters for an updated unit manning roster. Contact information for the 
identified respondents was obtained through the DODEE directory. The identified Recruiters 
were asked if they would be willing to answer questions about their direct-supervisors and their 
supervisors’ influence on their performance as an Army Recruiter. The researcher leveraged in-
person interviews if a participant was within driving distance and could be interviewed in person. 
All other respondents were interviewed over the phone. At the beginning of every interview, the 
researcher provided the interviewee with a consent form that outlines all information given will 
remain anonymous and confidential. The researcher reassured all participants that their leaders 
would not have access to their responses. After the interview, the researcher reassured 
interviewees about their confidentiality and let them know they could read the findings in the 
published dissertation.
Materials or Instrumentation
      The researcher used a semistructured interview process to gather pertinent information 
from participants. The primary advantages and purpose of using semistructured interviews were 
to leverage open-ended questions with follow-up queries (Adams, 2018). Phenomenological 
research aims to discover a phenomenon in-depth, which in this case would be the influence of 
positive and effective leadership, while also reaching “at the essence of participants’ lived 
experience of the phenomenon” (Yuksel & Y?ld?r?m, 2015). Utilizing the principles and ideals 
identified in conducting semistructured interviews and phenomenological research, the 
researcher employed a series of interview questions. Figure 7 covers the goal of using 
semistructured interviews to capture the essence of one’s experience:
Figure 7 
The Phenomenological Concept of Experience
 
Note. Reprinted from “Theoretical Frameworks, Methods, and Procedures for Conducting 
Phenomenological Studies in Educational Settings,” by P. Yuksel and S. Y?ld?r?m, 2015, Turkish 
Online Journal of Qualitative Inquiry, 6(1), p. 4. (https://dergipark.org). Reprinted with 
permission.
      The interview questions were designed to cover the theoretical framework concepts and 
answer the primary research questions. The interview guide covered effective leader behaviors 
and leader-member exchanges while also addressing Army recruiting operations’ leadership 
questions. The interviews captured the essence of the Recruiters’ and Station Commanders’ 
experiences with leadership in Iowa Army recruiting companies.
Study Procedures 
      The fundamental concepts associated with phenomenological qualitative studies are 
rooted in the grasp of the essence of a person’s lived experience (Yuksel & Y?ld?r?m, 2015). 
Throughout the research process, between five and 25 participants were interviewed in-person 
and over the phone. The researcher recorded the conversations and reverted to the dialogue 
created between the researcher and the interviewee to analyze the lived experience of Recruiters 
serving in the Iowa Army recruiting companies. Focusing on the responses given and leveraging 
the semistructured interview’s power and flexibility helped the researcher gauge how positive 
and effective leadership, or the lack thereof, influenced the Recruiters’ lived experiences. The 
individual narratives of the five to 25 Soldiers described the reality of this phenomenon (Cilesiz, 
2009; Husserl, 1970; Moustakas, 1994; Yuksel & Y?ld?r?m, 2015).
      An interview guide (see Appendix A) was used to collect the data for this research 
design. The data collected was the phenomenological qualitative data that captured the essence 
of each Recruiter or Station Commander’s lived experience in Iowa Army recruiting companies. 
The interviews took place over six weeks. Participants were given an informed consent form (see 
Appendix B) that reassured them of their rights and input protection. Pseudonyms were assigned 
to ensure anonymity. Once the informed consent form was signed, the researcher began the 
interview. It was expected that each interview would take approximately one hour to complete. 
Data collected during the interview process was safeguarded by the researcher in the researcher’s 
home office in a locked cabinet.
      Once the data were collected, data were reviewed and analyzed following the guidelines 
associated with Moustakas’ (1994) phenomenological research procedures. Yuksel and Y?ld?r?m 
(2015) described the steps of phenomenological data analysis. The first step in the research 
process began with epoché, which instructed the researcher to set “aside…the researcher’s 
prejudgments and predispositions towards the phenomenon” (Yuksel & Y?ld?r?m, 2015, p. 10). 
Identifying predispositions and prejudgments was a critical part of the process, given the 
researcher’s extensive knowledge and closeness to the career field from which the research 
problem stems. The researcher wrote down a subjectivity statement and reviewed it before 
analyzing any data collected. Once the analysis began, the researcher utilized the steps outlined 
in Figure 8.
Figure 8 
The Steps of Data Analysis
 
Note. Reprinted from Theoretical Frameworks, Methods, and Procedures for Conducting 
Phenomenological Studies in Educational Settings,” by P. Yuksel and S. Y?ld?r?m, 2015, Turkish 
Online Journal of Qualitative Inquiry, 6(1), p. 11. Reprinted with permission.
Data Collection and Analysis
      The interview process followed Yuksel and Y?ld?r?m’s (2015) interview process. The 
interview model originally stemmed from Seidman (1998), who used three separate interviews in 
his approach to ensure he gathered the appropriate phenomenological data. A researcher-
developed interview guide was the tool used to elicit the subject’s perceptions and experiences 
associated with positive and effective leadership in recruiting. 
      Participants were asked a series of questions to create a dialogue about Recruiters’ 
perceptions of their leader. The interviewer began by asking subjects to describe the best leader 
they have worked for while serving in the United States Army. Once the dialogue was created 
between the researcher and the respondent, the researcher elicited the respondent’s perceptions 
of their leaders by capturing Recruiters’ lived experiences with their leaders. The researcher 
responded with follow-up questions that probed for further information from the subjects 
throughout the interview. 
      Questions from the interview guide focused on effective leader behaviors, leader-member 
exchanges, and industry-specific elements. Emotional intelligence was looked for as a recurring 
theme throughout the process. The interviewer solicited information from participants regarding 
how Recruiters operate with their leader regularly. Throughout the interview, the researcher 
looked for codes and themes that indicated Recruiters’ perceptions of whether the LMX is a 
high-functioning or low-functioning dyadic relationship. 
      Lastly, the researcher analyzed Recruiters’ experiences to describe how positive and 
effective leadership influences success or failure in Iowa Army recruiting companies. The focus 
was on how effective a leader is in USAREC from the perspective of the participants. The 
responses engendered led to an additional dialogue between the interviewer and the participant. 
The researcher obtained a sufficient data-saturation after the interviewing phase while capturing 
the essence of Recruiters’ lived experiences within Iowa Army Recruiting Companies.
      The data analysis procedures (Figure 8) followed an 8-step protocol covering the process 
once the data was collected during the semistructured interview. The 8 steps were followed just 
as Yuksel and Y?ld?r?m (2015) set forth their data analysis procedures. The end goal was to 
capture the essence of each Recruiter’s experience through three meta-categories of analyses: 
phenomenological reduction, imagination variation, and essence (Moustakas, 1994). The steps 
were conducted as follows:
1.	 Phenomenological reduction: This process includes a holistic approach of bracketing, 
horizontaling, and grouping related themes together while establishing textural 
language (Moustakas, 1994). The textural language during the phenomenological 
reduction process focuses on capturing not only the “external object but also the 
internal act of consciousness, the experience as such, the rhythm and relationship 
between phenomenon and self” (Moustakas, 1994, p. 88). Typical perception and 
analysis call for a researcher to take a straight-forward analytic approach to an object, 
whereas phenomenological reduction calls for a researcher to focus on an object’s 
perceived experience (Miller, 1984; Moustakas, 1994).
2.	Imagination Variation: The second phase of the phenomenological data analysis 
process calls for the researcher to “seek possible meanings through the utilization of 
imagination, varying from the frames of reference, employing polarities and 
reversals, and approaching the phenomenon from divergent perspectives, different 
positions, roles, or functions” (Moustakas, 1994, p. 93). The goal is to identify more 
than the simple object being analyzed; rather, the researcher must be able to define 
“the ‘how’ that speaks to conditions that illuminate the ‘what’ of experience” 
(Moustakas, 1994, p. 93). Through collecting data, the researcher must describe the 
interviewee’s experience, perceptions, and memories (Husserl, 1931).
3.	Essence: The end goal of the phenomenological data analysis process is to execute 
the “intuitive integration of the fundamental textural and structural descriptions into a 
unified statement of the essences of experience of the phenomenon as a whole” 
(Moustakas, 1994, p. 95). Capturing the essence of experience requires the researcher 
to synthesize the word, experiences, and feelings of interviewees captured during the 
semistructured interview (Moustakas, 1994). 
      Data were analyzed using computer-assisted qualitative data analysis software 
(CAQDAS). Using CAQDAS is standard practice during the coding and analysis phase of the 
research process (Lucas, 2017). CAQDAS is a valuable tool used by researchers to manage 
significant data sources to search through and retrieve data, keywords, and identified codes 
within the interview responses (Lucas, 2017). Analyzing the responses gathered from the 
conducted interviews was critical in performing the following:
*	The analysis of differences, similarities, and relationships between passages of text.
*	The development of typologies and theories.
*	The testing of theoretical assumptions using qualitative data material and integrating 
qualitative and quantitative methods (Flick et al., 2004).
      The researcher used the NVivo software provided by Northcentral University as the 
program to facilitate the coding process. The interview responses gathered during the 
semistructured interviews were transcribed by the researcher and entered into the NVivo 
software. Once the interviews were transcribed or manually uploaded into NVivo, the researcher 
could quickly identify recurring themes and other codes. 
Assumptions 
      The researcher was deliberate with the use of philosophical reflexivity when the research 
phase began. The philosophical reflexivity refers to the researcher’s epistemic, metaphysical, and 
moral assumptions of the researcher’s experience with USAREC (Gonnerman et al., & Hall, 
2015). Leveraging the researcher’s philosophical reflexivity and experience with the subject 
matter will help the readers understand the researcher’s assumptions (Gonnerman et al., 2015). 
The first assumption was that the researcher would avoid the pitfalls of social-psychologically 
based biases based on lived experiences in USAREC (Gonnerman et al., 2015).
      Further assumptions for this study were that respondents would be honest with their 
experiences with their leaders. This assumption was based on an unbiased person with whom no 
one directly reports being the interviewer. Twenty-five Recruiters were asked to participate 
based on the randomization of the total population. It was assumed that approximately 15 
Recruiters would respond and be willing to join the semistructured interview process. Based on 
the high number of employee surveys that Soldiers receive, it was assumed that approximately 
10 of the 25 would not respond to the interviewer’s request for an interview due to the subject 
considering this is another typical survey.
      It was also assumed that those who choose to participate would be doing so out of the 
desire to better the current state of Army recruiting. Finally, it was assumed that only 
approximately 10 of the 15 would participate due to scheduling conflicts or an unwillingness to 
answer questions about their direct supervisors. The interviewer was previously assigned to the 
same regional command; therefore, some Recruiters may have been apprehensive about being 
completely honest due to the potential for their responses to make it back to their leaders. 
Additionally, the amount of time needed to set aside for the interview may have been assumed to 
interfere with their work schedule. Recruiters under pressure to meet quotas may have perceived 
volunteering to be interviewed without reward a burden in terms of time.
Limitations
      Limitations to this research design stemmed from the randomized sampling procedures. 
The researcher identified 101 Soldiers throughout the Iowa Army recruiting companies; 
however, due to geographical dispersion and the number of Soldiers within the target population, 
the researcher did not identify previous experiences or time associated with the companies. 
Respondents could have provided insufficient information based on their lack of time within 
Iowa Army recruiting companies. The limitations specified were counteracted through the large 
sample size. Creating a sample size that included over 25% of the target population was to 
account for Recruiters not wanting to participate and ensure there was sufficient data saturation.
      Additionally, limitations existed with the Recruiters randomly selected who worked 
within the same company as the researcher. While the chosen Recruiters did not directly work 
with or for the researcher, they know the researcher could contact their supervisors. The ease of 
access and communication for those within the Northern Iowa Army Recruiting Company may 
have made respondents apprehensive about being truthful and open during their semistructured 
interviews. To counteract this limitation, the researcher reiterated the confidentiality practices 
associated with the research process. Furthermore, the researcher provided contact information to 
the researcher’s university should participants feel that their confidentiality had been 
compromised. The goal was to ensure all interviewees felt free to answer questions truthfully and 
elaborate as deemed appropriate.
Delimitations
      The sample population included only Soldiers assigned to the Iowa Army recruiting 
companies. Over 10,000 Soldiers work in USAREC; however, it was not feasible to collect 
qualitative phenomenological data from a large and geographically dispersed group. Soldiers 
were selected based on their current assignment to one of the three companies within Iowa. If 
Soldiers recently moved to a new location, they were eliminated from the population from which 
the random sample was derived. Pulling a sample population from the currently assigned 
population allowed the researcher to have 101 personnel to randomize in order to achieve the 
maximum number of 25 potential participants for the study. Given the potential for work, 
personal, or other professional conflicts in being interviewed, the researcher selected 25 for the 
sample to achieve between 5 to 25 interviews.
      The population from which the sample was pulled met the criterion of persons who 
would be positively impacted by effective leadership behaviors, leader-member exchanges, 
emotional intelligence, and goal-setting theories. All persons in the population were in a 
professional setting where leadership and positive influence could create success conditions. 
Regardless of whether the person was coming from the Burlington Recruiting Station in 
southeast Iowa or the Sioux City Recruiting Station in western Iowa, the theoretical framework 
and literature review concepts were equally applicable. 
      The researcher could have applied this same research design to one of the three 
companies alone based on the problem statement, purpose statement, and research questions. 
Instead, the researcher wanted to spread the target population far enough out that Soldiers were 
unaware of one another to an extent. There was a potential to find similar data in recruiting 
companies based on how company leaders operate. Including all three of the Iowa Army 
recruiting companies assisted in confirming the data collected. Ultimately, the purpose and 
problem statement were applicable at every recruiting station level throughout USAREC. The 
delimitations set helped with validating data collected throughout an entire region.
Ethical Assurances
      The researcher gained approval from Northcentral University’s Institutional Review 
Board (IRB) before collecting any data. Confidentiality and anonymity were of the utmost 
importance in qualitative interviewing strategies (Weiss, 1994). Furthermore, suppose the 
collected data could be used without providing identifying information. In that case, it was the 
researcher’s responsibility to include the respondent’s data in a way that would protect research 
subjects from harm (Kaiser, 2009; Sieber, 1992). Appendix B contains the informed consent that 
outlined steps for confidentiality in this study. Informed consent was provided to all participants 
before any interviews took place. Additionally, the researcher assured each respondent that their 
name and location would not be repeated to anyone aside from the dissertation committee’s 
members.
      All interview materials were kept at the researcher’s home office or on the researcher’s 
personal computer. No other person had access to either the researcher’s home office or personal 
laptop. The researcher’s laptop was locked and could only be opened with a password or 
fingerprint. It was improbable that anyone would have accessed the data being collected during 
this process. Finally, as an additional step to ensure anonymity, the researcher assigned 
interviewees a sample number and pseudonym. Respondents were only referred to by their 
assigned participant code or pseudonym (e.g., Research Subject Number 1 or John Smith) if a 
specific quote was to be given. The researcher understood how important it was to maintain 
confidentiality and respect all persons involved in the research study to the highest degree.
      The researcher was mindful of biases and prejudgments when executing this research 
project. For nearly ten years, the researcher has been in USAREC and has experienced various 
leadership approaches to recruiting operations. The researcher understood the importance of 
separating personal experiences from objectively collecting personalized phenomenological 
qualitative research from individuals working in Iowa Army recruiting companies. The potential 
for determining what is setting the scene for successes or failures throughout the entire state was 
valuable information that could be replicated at the national level; therefore, the researcher 
understood the obligation associated with carrying out this research study free of biases and 
prejudgments of the topic.
Summary
      The phenomenological research design was the best way to capture the experiences of 
Recruiters and Station Commanders to establish how positive and effective leadership has 
influenced their ability to be successful in Iowa Army recruiting companies. Utilizing 
semistructured interviews, the researcher had the opportunity to interview between five and 25 
subjects from the target population. The sample was established through a randomized sample 
collection. It covered multiple types of respondents within the Iowa Army recruiting companies. 
Semistructured interviews were conducted in person and telephonically throughout six weeks. 
After completing each interview, the researcher reviewed and analyzed the recorded responses 
given during each semistructured interview. 
      The essence of each Soldier’s experience in Army recruiting within the Iowa region was 
captured by leveraging the power of the three-phase phenomenological research and data 
analysis process. The phenomenological research and data analysis procedures gave insight into 
the research problem. The method employed provided significant findings, which allowed the 
researcher to answer the research questions. Chapter 4 contains the findings from this qualitative 
phenomenological study.
?
Chapter 4: Findings 
       The purpose of this phenomenological qualitative study was to identify positive and 
effective leadership practices within Iowa Army Recruiting Companies by capturing the lived 
experiences of Recruiters and Station Commanders within these companies. The three recruiting 
companies used in this phenomenological qualitative study represent more than 280 companies 
that create the USAREC. Analyzing the lived experiences of Recruiters and Station Commanders 
within the Iowa Army Recruiting Companies allowed insight into positive and effective 
leadership methods that will result in future mission success.
       Semistructured interviews were conducted with 10 Soldiers within the Iowa Army 
Recruiting Companies to capture the data used in this study. Interviews were conducted 
telephonically, recorded, and transcribed for further analysis. The results of the study are 
captured in this chapter. The chapter is organized into three sections: trustworthiness of the data, 
results, and evaluation of the findings. Themes were identified during the analysis and are 
located under each research question. The following research questions guided the study:
Q1.	To what extent does positive and effective leadership play a role in mission success or 
failure in Iowa Army Recruiting Companies from Recruiters’ and Station  
Commanders’ perspective?
Q2.	How do Recruiters’ attitudes and overall comprehension of Army recruiting practices 
influence their ability to be productive and effective in achieving recruitment goals in 
Iowa Army Recruiting Companies from Recruiters’ and Station Commanders’ 
perspective?
Q3.	What are the Iowa Army Recruiting Company Leadership Teams’ dominant leadership 
characteristics from the Recruiters’ and Station  Commanders’ perspective?
Q4.	What are the driving factors for Army Recruiters’ productivity and effectiveness in 
Iowa Army Recruiting Companies, from Recruiters’ and Station Commanders’ 
perspective?
Trustworthiness of the Data
      Phenomenological research studies rely upon a researcher’s ability to authenticate the 
study findings to rule out defective or biased results (Alase, 2017). Trustworthiness is one of the 
primary tools associated with establishing credible and transferable findings in a 
phenomenological research design (Alase, 2017). Trustworthiness is best achieved when data are 
presented, so critical themes were highlighted while individual phenomenological experiences 
are captured (Peat et al., 2019). The unique experiences and shared themes are equally essential 
to the reliability of the data collected. Trustworthiness includes credibility, transferability, 
dependability, and confirmability to ensure the highest authenticity and quality of data (Peat et 
al., 2019).
Credibility
      Credibility is considered the first and most important aspect of data collected during a 
research design (Statistics Solutions, 2020). Credibility in research offers to prove the truth and 
reliability of the data collected from the research subjects. Triangulation is a critical method 
linked with associating credibility and validity to a research design and discovered data (Noble & 
Heale, 2019). There are four primary types of triangulation when associating credibility to the 
research: “data, investigators, theories, as well as methodologies” (Denzin, 1970, p. 301). The 
researcher utilized data triangulation as the primary source for offering credibility to the study. 
The researcher was given the perspective of Recruiters and Station Commanders working for 
three different companies that make up Army recruiting within the State of Iowa. Triangulating 
three data sources into a single population allowed the researcher to achieve a phenomenological 
perspective on effective and positive leadership practices within Iowa Army Recruiting 
Companies.
Transferability
      Transferability speaks to the ability for the research findings to be transferred from the 
population analyzed to another similar community or group (Golafshani, 2003). The researcher 
used triangulation to spread the population across three distinct but regionally co-located groups 
to capture multiple effective and positive leadership views. Furthermore, the researcher selected 
25 participants with the intent of securing at least 6–8 interviews from the three companies and 
12 recruiting stations that encompass Iowa. Creswell (1998) suggested between 5–25 
participants, while Morse (1994) recommended six respondents to capture the required data for a 
phenomenological study. Utilizing a randomizer and the number of respondents who agreed to 
be interviewed, the researcher captured 10 interviews spanning seven of the 12 available 
recruiting stations and all three companies. The three companies that cover Army recruiting in 
Iowa have similar setups to companies throughout the United States, Germany, and Asia. The 
results from this study can be applied to any recruiting company throughout the command.
Dependability
      One of the critical concerns regarding dependability came from validating the interview 
situation (Flick et al., 2004). The researcher previously worked in the Northern Iowa Army 
Recruiting Company but waited until he had moved to a different assignment to conduct the 
interview process. The researcher leveraged his rapport with many of the respondents during his 
last job in Iowa. Because of the time between the researcher leaving the Northern Iowa Army 
Recruiting Company and when the interviews were conducted, the researcher and respondents 
had a low power difference. This prior relationship allowed dependability using rapport and 
member checks (Flick et al., 2004).
Confirmability
      The researcher used an audit trail to achieve confirmability during the analysis phase. An 
audit trail allows future researchers to follow the researcher’s decision path to arrive at the 
study’s conclusion (Carcary, 2019). The interpretive phenomenological analysis will never lead 
two researchers to interpret data the same; however, the results of following the audit trail should 
give outside researchers the ability to arrive at a similar finding (Carcary, 2009). The researcher-
maintained journal notes, NVivo notes, and all original transcriptions throughout the process. 
Results
      This study demonstrated how positive and effective leadership influences Recruiters 
within the Iowa Army Recruiting Companies. Twenty-five Soldiers were requested to participate 
in this research study. Of the 25 Soldiers, 10 agreed to be interviewed. They were happy to share 
their lived-experiences as Recruiters or Station Commanders within Iowa. The findings indicated 
that their supervisor’s leadership greatly influences Recruiters and Station Commanders. 
Furthermore, when leaders implemented positive and effective leadership, Recruiters and Station 
Commanders were more productive and fostered a positive command climate within their 
organization.
      Positive leadership is the leadership strategy that focuses on positive and productive work 
environments, boosts positive relationships amongst all persons within an organization, sets the 
guidelines for, promotes positive communication methods, and drives organizational values and 
meaningfulness (Lis, 2015). Effective leadership relies on the core component of a leader’s 
ability to improve their team’s performance by efficiently influencing the process that determines 
their performance (Yukl, 2012). The Army defines leadership as having the ability to “influence 
people by providing purpose, direction, and motivation to accomplish the mission and improve 
the organization” (Headquarters, 2019a, p. 11). This study demonstrated that Army leaders who 
implement these foundations of positive and effective leadership were able to drive their 
organizations to be more positive and productive.
      The researcher asked respondents a series of open-ended questions from the established 
semistructured interview guide. The interview guide contained 18 questions that started with the 
respondent’s most memorable and best leader and ended with a question to propose what the 
respondent would change if they were in charge. The respondents gave an array of responses that 
included negative and positive reviews of their current leaders. The semistructured interview 
guide addressed the four research questions, as listed throughout the next section. 
      Demographic information is displayed in Table 2 and is limited to ensure the data cannot 
identify respondents. Respondents were from all three companies in Iowa and were Station 
Commanders and Recruiters from seven of the 12 stations available. Respondents ranged in rank 
from Sergeant to Sergeant First Class. 
Table 2 
Demographic Information of Respondents from Iowa Army Recruiting Companies
Participant
Male/Female
Component
Years in Iowa
1
Male
Regular Army
< 2
2
Male
Regular Army
> 2
3
Female
Regular Army
> 2
4
Male
Regular Army
> 2
5
Male
Regular Army
> 2
6
Male
Active Guard Reserve
> 2
7
Female
Regular Army
< 2
8
Male
Active Guard Reserve
< 2
9
Male
Active Guard Reserve
> 2
10
Male
Active Guard Reserve
> 2
Research Question 1
      To what extent does positive and effective leadership play a role in mission success or 
failure in Iowa Army Recruiting Companies from Recruiters’ and Station Commanders’ 
perspective?
      An LMX relationship is an inevitable series of exchanges employees will establish given 
enough time together in the workplace (Mahsud et al., 2010). The researcher used the criterion 
associated with high and low-performing LMX relationships to capture data during the research 
design. Interview questions that related to this theme were associated with the following areas: 
(a) the amount of time a leader dedicated to assisting with their subordinate’s problems, (b) how 
likely a leader was to defend the actions of their associates, (c) how satisfied a leader was with 
the performance of their subordinates, and (d) how the working relationship between the 
employee and their supervisor was defined from the perspective of the respondent. 
      Theme 1: Leader Involvement. Leader involvement is the cornerstone of successful 
organizational performance (Headquarters, 2019a). Respondents answered that, for the most part, 
their leaders would go above and beyond to assist with any issues the Soldier experienced. In a 
few instances, Soldiers indicated their leader would commit to solving a problem but fail to 
follow through. N. Willigan answered they expect their leader to devote the “very minimum” to 
assist with issues in their personal or professional lives. Despite feeling “bad” about answering 
the question, C. Juvenal wanted to be truthful with their responses. 
      The occasions where Soldiers did not believe their leader would assist with their 
problems were fewer than the instances where leaders were involved and engaged in their 
subordinates’ lives. Most of the Soldiers being interviewed felt confident with their leader’s level 
of involvement. There was a relationship between Soldiers in recruiting stations who were not 
making their assigned mission and their leader’s involvement in their personal and professional 
lives. Lack of leader involvement can be an indicator of a low-performing LMX, and in this case, 
the indications proved to be accurate (Mahsud et al., 2010).
      Theme 2: Leader Support for Actions. All of the respondents agreed their leader would 
be likely to defend their actions regardless of the situation in which they found themselves so 
long as it wasn’t an “egregious” intentional act or error. Soldiers who had a limited amount of 
experience within Iowa or with their current leader indicated that their leader would defend their 
actions if a situation arose. M. Chui stated, “I have never really given my leader reason to have 
to defend me, but if I were to be blindly confident, immediately.” High-performing LMXs are 
founded on trust and respect (Mahsud et al., 2010). Respondents also answered with high 
confidence levels, such as Z. Newlin, who stated their leader would have “gone on the carpet in 
front of the man and defended their actions” Soldiers must operate within the parameters of 
mutual respect and trust that their leaders will support and defend their actions if an issue arises.
      Theme 3: Leader Satisfaction with Performance. Respondents gave varying answers 
as to whether they knew where they stood with their leader and how satisfied their leader was 
with their performance. High-performance levels are found when leaders have clearly established 
a subordinate’s duties, responsibilities, and performance goals (Locke, 1968). Soldiers who were 
unclear of their leader’s view on their performance indicated they also were part of a low-
performing LMX. I. Ingrao stated, “I think it is difficult to tell … like where I really stand, I do 
not think I know that.”
      Soldiers in successful recruiting stations gave more precise answers and identified this 
theme from a positive perspective. N. Spears felt their leader would keep them informed of their 
progress, for better or worse, with a detailed description of their performance and goal-
achievements. N. Spears stated, “There is never a question;” alternatively, if they did not meet 
their goals, their leader would let them “know that you messed up, but they are going to help you 
also.” Most of the responses received were in line with high-performing LMXs who used goal-
setting techniques. 
      Theme 4: Positive Work Relationship. Eight of the 10 participants discussed positive 
working-relationships between their supervisor and themselves. On several occasions, 
respondents gave similar answers to M. Chui’s comments. M. Chui stated, “like my leader is 
vastly trusting in me that I will, you know, do my job.” M. Chui said they would do everything 
in their power to not “let him down” in response to the vast amount of trust given. The positive 
relationship was a clear theme throughout the data collection process. It displayed a connection 
with higher-performing and highly successful stations. 
      Despite the high number of positive working relationships, not all respondents felt the 
same. Soldiers like N. Willigan, who indicated they had a low or negative working relationship 
with their supervisor, revealed they “feel like they have a boss, not a leader.” J. Weiss felt their 
leader could reduce the number of “forcing functions and trust in the Recruiters themselves until 
they showed failure.” 
      The researcher revealed the theme of a positive work relationship after studying interview 
data that pertained to questions about the workplace environment, incentives, expectations, and 
counseling sessions. Recruiters and Station Commanders agreed that their leaders could 
influence their organizational commitment and motivational level daily. Eight of the 10 Soldiers 
included positivity as a factor for what they would describe as the best leader they served within 
the Army. The degree to which leaders were positively engaged with their unit and the 
teammates who make-up these teams had a significant relationship with its success level. 
Positive leadership’s root strategy is to foster productive and positive work environments seen in 
Iowa Army Recruiting Companies (Lis, 2015). 
Research Question 2
      How do Recruiters’ attitudes and overall comprehension of Army recruiting practices 
influence their ability to be productive and effective in achieving recruitment goals in Iowa 
Army Recruiting Companies from Recruiters’ and Station Commanders’ perspective?
      Locke’s goal-setting theory relies on four moderators associated with successful leader-
subordinate relationships: ability, commitment, feedback, and situational constraints (Latham & 
Locke, 2018). The researcher established a connection between the four moderators of Locke’s 
goal-setting theory and how attitudes and overall comprehension of Army recruiting practices 
influenced Recruiters’ and Station Commanders’ abilities to succeed in Iowa. The themes 
identified during this analysis were as follows.
      Theme 1: Recruiters’ and Station Commanders’ Proficiency Level. The researcher 
asked a series of questions that would provide insight into the respondent’s proficiency level in 
their current role. Five of the 10 respondents stated they were fully prepared to conduct their 
daily operations as either a Recruiter or Station Commander. The other five who did not feel 
confident in their abilities came from successful and unsuccessful recruiting stations. 
Respondents who were not confident in their abilities cited the current environment, the 
USAREC Station Commander Course curriculum, and the job’s complexity as the primary 
factors. 
      There was no definitive relationship between being successful as a Recruiter or Station 
Commander and feeling prepared in their current duty. Furthermore, two of the five respondents 
who stated they felt fully equipped to do their job said they had to learn the job independently. N. 
Willigan stated, “I feel like I am prepared. I mean, it is just something I had to learn on my own 
… I have talked to a lot of people about how to become better, so I feel like I am prepared.” 
There was little to no leader involvement in preparing a Recruiter or Station Commander in their 
abilities to do their job. The overarching relationship between a high level of preparation in 
Recruiters and Station Commanders could be found in their attitude towards the job. Recruiters 
and Station Commanders who maintained a positive outlook and were willing to learn from 
situations, peers, and supervisors were more likely to feel they were proficient at their job.
      Theme 2: Leader Engagement in Daily Operations. There was an adequate level of 
daily engagement in Recruiters’ and Station Commanders’ duties despite a low relationship 
between leader engagement in formal training and preparing subordinates for their jobs. 
Recruiters and Station Commanders agreed at a 90% rate that their best leaders were leaders who 
engaged in operations or gave them the tools necessary to complete the job. Soldiers in Iowa 
Army Recruiting Companies are thriving despite their need for greater leader involvement and 
training. In their lived experiences, Soldiers in these companies achieve success by focusing on 
leadership-based principles and attitudes instead of formal training.
      Additionally, seven of the 10 respondents stated that a characteristic associated with the 
best leader they have had in the Army was the leader’s drive to be hands-on in the organization’s 
operations. From the perspective of Recruiters and Station Commanders, leaders in Iowa Army 
Recruiting Companies are more focused on daily operations than training their teams to operate 
independently. N. Willigans’s best leader was one who they felt “like they went above and 
beyond” to get the job done. The desired characteristics included a leader who would push the 
team to get them operating at a level where they would succeed. Recruiters and Station 
Commanders look for leaders to be more involved in their daily operations.
      Theme 3: Leaders Supporting Their Teams. A third theme that reinforced Research 
Question 2 came from leaders supporting their subordinates’ personal and professional lives. 
This theme supported Recruiters’ and Station Commanders’ job satisfaction and positive 
attitudes toward their organization and daily duties. Job attitudes directly correlate with 
employee commitment levels, low turnover rates, high levels of organizational citizenship 
behaviors, and degree of personal and professional satisfaction (Erdogan & Bauer, 2015; 
Gerstner & Day, 1995; Ilies et al., 2007). Eight of the 10 respondents felt their leaders were 
incredibly supportive of their personal and professional issues. The two respondents who thought 
their leaders did not support them also indicated they did not believe their leader recognized their 
potential. T. Wallis stated, “That is a rough question. I mean, I have not been told exactly how he 
would measure my potential.” There is a relationship between leaders supporting their 
subordinates, leaders realizing their teammates’ potential, and Recruiters’ and Station 
Commanders’ commitment to achieving their mission.
      There was a relationship between Recruiters’ and Station Commanders’ attitudes and 
overall comprehension of Army recruiting practices and their abilities to be productive and 
achieve their mission. Recruiters and Station Commanders who felt like their leaders supported 
them and worked together as a team indicated they were more engaged in achieving their 
mission. Leader engagement in daily operations and leader involvement in their subordinates’ 
personal and professional lives had a clear connection with Soldiers who were willing to be 
productive and as effective as possible in achieving recruitment goals. The respondents’ 
commitment levels were directly in line with Locke’s requirements to successfully implement 
goal-setting theory efficaciously (Latham & Locke, 2018).
Research Question 3
      What are the Iowa Army Recruiting Company Leadership Teams’ dominant leadership 
characteristics from the Recruiters’ and Station Commanders’ perspective?
      Iowa Army Recruiting Company Leadership Teams must successfully master the practice 
of influencing “people by providing purpose, direction, and motivation to accomplish the 
mission and improve the organization” (Headquarters, 2019a, p.11). The researcher analyzed 
interview data from all respondents, searching for dominant leadership characteristics in Iowa 
Army Recruiting Company Leadership Teams. Yukl (2012) stated there are four meta-categories 
of effective leadership behaviors. The following themes provide a closer look at which meta-
category is utilized the most within Iowa Army Recruiting Companies.
      Theme 1: Relations-oriented Leadership Behaviors. The components of relations-
oriented leadership behaviors consist of supporting, developing, recognizing, and empowering 
(Yukl, 2012). This type of leadership behavior directly aligns with the Army’s primary 
leadership focus of influencing one’s team to achieve its mission and better the organization 
(Headquarters, 2019a). Nine of the 10 respondents reported that relations-oriented behaviors in 
some form were required to be successful. Only one respondent noted that, from their 
perspective, toxic leadership was beneficial to their growth and development as a Soldier in 
USAREC. N. Willigan said, “recruiting was super horrible at that point in time … but, after he 
left, I realized he was just prepping us for the future of recruiting.”
      Respondents reported a variety of relations-oriented leadership behaviors currently being 
implemented by Iowa Army Recruiting Company Leadership Teams. Nine of the respondents 
stated they were given 75% or more daily autonomy to operate within the constraints of their 
commander’s intent. Four of the respondents said they were empowered to work daily with total 
freedom over managing their recruiting operations. From the perspective of those who were 
authorized to operate how they deemed necessary, CLTs focused on supporting, developing, 
recognizing, and empowering their teams to achieve success. 
      Theme 2: Toxic Leadership. Toxic leadership can be construed by various acts or 
managerial methods employed by leaders. These methods include abusive supervision, 
authoritarian leadership, narcissism, self-promotion, and unpredictability (Schmidt, 2008). One 
respondent mentioned toxic leadership as a method for driving production in USAREC; 
however, multiple respondents stated their leaders use toxic leadership components as a form of 
management. Toxic leadership behaviors may push for immediate results but are ultimately 
destructive to organizations (Bell, 2020).
      Four respondents cited their CLTs employed some form of toxic leadership. Those who 
indicated toxic leadership behaviors were being utilized at the CLT level stated they were not 
currently achieving their assigned missions. A relationship existed between toxic leadership 
behaviors and those who do not achieve success in obtaining their recruitment numbers. One 
respondent who reported toxic leadership behaviors indicated their leaders employed 
“micromanagement from the company down.” A second respondent noted a lack of consistency 
in how Recruiters were held accountable for their recruitment goals. The unpredictability of how 
leaders enforce their Recruiters’ success or failures strengthened negative behaviors and created 
division within the unit. Recruiters and Station Commanders perceived consistency and 
predictability as their leaders’ critical traits to be productive and effective in their daily 
operations. 
      Theme 3: Effective Communication. Communicating a deliberate vision and strategic 
approach to achieving the organizational mission is a cornerstone in mastering positive and 
effective leadership (Yukl, 2012). Army leaders must balance strategizing the desired end state 
of the organization—mission accomplishment—while effectively communicating that picture to 
their teams (Graen & Uhl-Bien, 1995; USAREC, 2017c). From the perspective of Recruiters and 
Station Commanders, effective communication covered multiple areas of their daily operations. 
Effective communication methods impacted how leaders responded to work-stressors, how 
leaders recognized their subordinates’ potential, how satisfied associates felt their leaders were 
with their performance, and their leader’s decision-making processes. 
      Nine Recruiters and Station Commanders perceived their CLTs to employ effective 
communication methods when work stressors would arise. N. Willis noted their leader utilizing 
regular “sensing sessions” to help flatten communication and build teamwork. J. Weiss stated 
they appreciated how their leader is “always looking to point me in the right direction, saying 
this is where you can find the answer.” Respondents all gave an example of how they felt their 
leader’s effective communication improved the organization and made their teams more 
effective and productive. 
      Alternatively, one respondent indicated they felt their leader did not communicate 
effectively. The lack of effective communication in their organization acted as a deterrent to 
effective and productive recruiting operations. N. Willigan felt their leaders were “providing 
answers but not implementing them.” N. Willigan also perceived their leader would “not say 
things to specific people to fix the issues that are occurring,” and the problem “is never solved.” 
The respondent stated their leader did “not know how to kind of give the direction, like, pass the 
direction down to us … they brief it well, but they do not help us finish the end state.”
Research Question 4
      What are the driving factors for Army Recruiters’ productivity and effectiveness in Iowa 
Army Recruiting Companies, from Recruiters’ and Station Commanders’ perspective?
      USAREC leaders have the difficult task of influencing Army Recruiters to achieve 
annual recruitment goals, as stated by Congress (John S. McCain National Defense 
Authorization Act, 2019). Locke’s goal-setting theory was founded on perfecting an approach 
focused on incentives, task motivation, and goal setting procedures (Locke & Latham, 2019). 
Leaders must use the principles outlined in ADP 6-22, Leadership (Headquarters, 2019a) ADP 6-
0, Mission Command (Headquarters, 2019b), UM 3-30, Recruiting Company Operations 
(Headquarters, 2019f), and related publications to influence their teams to be successful. Leaders 
give the authority to operate under mission command principles to achieve the organization’s 
desired end state (Headquarters, 2019b). Driving success can be accomplished through various 
motivational and influential methods, as seen in the themes associated with Research Question 4. 
      Theme 1: Incentives. From the perspective of Recruiters and Station Commanders, 
Recruiters respond well to incentives. The primary incentive for Recruiters was time off in some 
form. Three respondents indicated they are currently incentivized by not working past 5:00 p.m. 
during the workweek. B. Bissex stated, “I love days off … every month you will get a four-day 
weekend” for achieving above-expectation recruitment goals. Respondents also cited more 
family time as their primary incentive, which aligns with being incentivized by time off. Eight 
respondents said more time off is the ideal incentive and would boost productivity in their 
organization.
      Two of the respondents stated their primary incentives were total autonomy in their daily 
operations. Recruiters or Station Commanders who were incentivized by full autonomy were in 
recruiting stations that successfully achieved their recruiting mission. M. Chui stated they were 
incentivized because they “love being in the Army” and wanted the opportunity to continue 
serving in the Army. Finally, M. Chui said they would be incentivized to be successful if they 
were offered the assignment of their choice following their position in USAREC. 
      Theme 2: Intrinsic Motivation. Incentives served as one factor to propel productivity 
and effectiveness for Army Recruiters. Still, it was not the only dominating theme for this 
research question. There is a relationship between intrinsic motivation, Recruiters and Station 
Commanders who have been given total autonomy, and successful recruiting stations. B. Bissex 
stated, “being successful will help me get where I want to go” when discussing why they are 
motivated to succeed in recruiting. B. Bissex indicated they are given total autonomy because 
their “work ethic will show up at the end of the day;” if they are wasting their time throughout 
the day, it will be seen in the number of enlistments they have achieved or failed to achieve. B. 
Bissex indicated they could conduct “95%” of their work with total autonomy, which allows 
them to pursue the avenues they believe will make them successful. J. Weiss stated they “just 
like to win” and are “super-competitive … I am always trying to get that number one spot.” 
Respondents cited various motivation sources, but intrinsic motivation and the desire to be 
successful had a clear relationship from Recruiters’ and Station Commanders’ perspectives.
Evaluation of the Findings
      The four research questions served as the primary tool for the researcher to identify the 
effective and positive leadership practices within Iowa Army Recruiting Companies being 
utilized to maximize Recruiter productivity and effectiveness. The researcher used the 18-
question interview guide to dive into the lived-experiences of Recruiters and Station 
Commanders out of the three Army recruiting companies that cover Iowa. The researcher found 
12 themes throughout the four research questions supported by this dissertation’s theoretical 
framework.
      The first research question’s focus was to identify the extent to which positive and 
effective leadership influenced mission success or failure in Iowa Army Recruiting Companies, 
from Recruiters’ and Station Commanders’ perspective. The third research question focused on 
identifying the dominant leadership characteristics of Iowa Army Recruiting Company CLTs 
from the Recruiters’ and Station Commanders’ perspectives. These research questions were 
designed to determine to what extent leadership influences recruiting stations achieving mission 
success. During this analysis, the themes identified included positive work relationships, leader 
satisfaction with performance, leader support for actions, leader involvement, effective 
communication, toxic leadership, and relations-oriented behaviors. Leader involvement was 
determined to be an identifying factor for high-performing recruiting stations. Leader 
involvement is a crucial component of employing effective leadership behaviors (Yukl, 2012). It 
is also a critical task associated with effective Army leadership (Headquarters, 2019a). 
      Leaders who let their subordinates know when they were satisfied with their performance 
were seen favorably by their teams. Recruiters and Station Commanders who received 
recognition were driven to perform at higher levels than those who were unsure of their leader’s 
perception of their performance. Leaders must continually employ the concepts from Locke’s 
goal-setting theory, which focuses on giving employees clear and consistent feedback to 
encourage high performance (Latham & Locke, 2018). Iowa Army Recruiting Company 
Leadership Teams were proficient at leveraging this tool, among others, to drive productivity.
      Respondents indicated a high level of support from their leaders throughout the 
interviewing process. Relations-oriented leadership behaviors, a category of effective leadership 
behaviors, is rooted in supporting, developing, recognizing, and empowering one’s team (Yukl, 
2012). Iowa Army recruiting leaders who unconditionally supported their teams established high 
performing LMXs supported by idiosyncratic deals (Davis & Heijden, 2018). The i-deals 
assisted in fostering employee engagement based on the leader to subordinates and subordinate 
to leader expectations. Even Soldiers with a limited amount of time in Iowa Army Recruiting 
Companies indicated the positive relationship between leader support and their ability to operate 
productively and effectively.
      Positive work relationships were found to be connected to high performing recruiting 
stations in Iowa. Soldiers assigned to Iowa Army Recruiting Companies predominantly had high 
levels of faith and mutual trust in their leaders and established work relationships. The high 
levels of mutual trust set high-performing LMXs, which in turn led to positive organizational 
citizenship behaviors, employee role acceptance, promotion rates, and low turnover rates (Anand 
et al., 2017; Dulebohn et al., 2012; Erdogan & Bauer, 2015; Erdogan & Liden, 2002). The 
respondents who stated they lacked a positive work relationship indicated the inverse effects of 
high performing LMXs, which marked the relationship existing and preferential to positive work 
relationships. The relationships with poor work relationships identified trends typically 
associated with toxic leadership behaviors. 
      Research Question 2 was designed to help the researcher determine how attitudes and 
overall comprehension of Army recruiting practices influence Recruiters’ and Station 
Commanders’ abilities to succeed. The researcher used Research Question 4 to determine what 
drives productivity and effectiveness in Iowa Army Recruiting Companies from the Recruiters’ 
and Station Commanders’ perspectives. The findings from the researcher’s analysis of these 
questions indicated the following themes: leaders supporting their teams, leader engagement in 
daily operations, Recruiters and Station Commanders’ proficiency levels, incentives, and 
intrinsic motivation.
      Like the themes identified in Research Question 1, leader support of their subordinates’ 
actions was vital to establish a high-performing LMX. From the Recruiters’ and Station 
Commanders’ perspective, it was essential for leaders to support their team’s operational needs 
and requirements. Recruiters and Station Commanders were more committed to their 
organization’s end state when their leader was involved with the unit’s day-to-day operations. 
The reciprocal exchange of dedication to the team’s mission led to a positive organizational 
culture and enhanced work engagement (Han & Woo, 2018). Recruiter and Station Commander 
proficiency levels in Iowa Army Recruiting Companies were high for the most part despite a 
lack in the consistency of formal training. High levels of proficiency were more closely 
attributed to incentivization and intrinsic motivation of Recruiters and Station Commanders.
      Recruiters and Station Commanders displayed predominantly high levels of emotional 
intelligence. Emotional intelligence is considered the foundation for successful workplace 
behaviors (Ashkanasy & Daus, 2005; Brackett et al., 2011; Lopes et al., 2006). Recruiters and 
Station Commanders indicated high intrinsic motivation levels, a core component of emotional 
intelligence, and other attributing elements. Recruiters and Station Commanders were influenced 
by incentives, such as days off, shorter workdays, and extended weekends; however, a 
predominant theme was Recruiters’ and Station Commanders’ natural desire to succeed in their 
career field. Recruiters and Station Commanders desired greater autonomy when it was not 
already granted and continued autonomy as an incentive for those who operated with it. 
Recruiters and Station Commanders who were given autonomy to conduct recruiting operations 
displayed the emotional intelligence components of cognizance and self-regulation (Cherniss & 
Goleman, 2001); thus, reinforcing their leader’s encouragement to grant greater autonomy. 
Summary
      Throughout Chapter 4, the interview data were analyzed for themes and to establish the 
findings. Twelve themes were identified and connected to the four research questions identified 
by the researcher. The researcher discovered a positive relationship between positive and 
effective leadership and mission success in Iowa Army Recruiting Companies. Recruiters and 
Station Commanders who felt empowered and supported by their leaders were more likely to 
achieve recruitment goals successfully. Furthermore, the dominant leadership characteristics of 
Iowa Army Recruiting Company Leadership Teams were relations-oriented leadership behaviors 
and similar effective leadership behaviors from Recruiters and Station Commanders’ 
perspectives. The CLT’s use of effective leadership behaviors was capitalized on by most 
Recruiters and Station Commanders in Iowa Army Recruiting Companies who displayed 
emotional intelligence traits. Recruiters and Station Commanders leveraged their leaders’ 
effective leadership behaviors to propel their intrinsic motivation and achieve mission success. In 
Chapter 5, the researcher will review the implications, recommendations, and conclusions of the 
research design.


Chapter 5: Implications, Recommendations, and Conclusions
      The problem addressed by this study was how a lack of effective and positive leadership 
in Iowa Army Recruiting Companies led to the inability of these companies’ capabilities to 
leverage Recruiter productivity and effectiveness to achieve mission success in Fiscal Year 2018. 
Analyzing one group of companies within USAREC may give insight into why the command, 
for the first time since 2005, missed its combined mission by 11,500 Soldiers (Baldor, 2018). 
The second occurrence of failure of the United States Army to achieve its recruiting goal impacts 
and will become very problematic for the United States’ current National Security Strategy 
(President of the United States, 2017).
      The dissertation topic focused on determining what influence effective and positive 
leadership has on Recruiter efficiency and success in an Army recruiting organization. Positive 
leadership is a leadership strategy that fosters a productive and positive work environment, 
boosts positive relationships amongst all persons within an organization, sets the guidelines for 
and promotes positive communication methods, and drives organizational values and 
meaningfulness (Lis, 2015). One of the critical characteristics of effective leadership is a leader’s 
ability to improve their team’s performance by efficiently influencing the processes that 
determine their performance (Yukl, 2012). 
      The U.S. Army’s leadership definition is rooted in the aggregation of positive and 
effective leadership concepts with their two-fold purpose of leadership. Army doctrine states that 
leadership must “influence people by providing purpose, direction, and motivation to accomplish 
the mission and improve the organization” (Headquarters, 2019a, p.11). First, Army leaders must 
provide purpose, direction, and motivation, a concept similarly stated in effective leadership 
fundamentals. Army leaders must then be able to use effective leadership methods to accomplish 
organizational goals and improve the team, an idea identified in the roots of positive leadership. 
Therefore, this dissertation was conducted to analyze the culmination of positive and effective 
leadership methods as a single concept to include how positive and effective leadership 
influences success in Iowa Army Recruiting Companies.
      The purpose of this phenomenological qualitative study was to identify the effective and 
positive leadership practices within Iowa Army Recruiting Companies that are being utilized to 
maximize Recruiter productivity and effectiveness to bring Northern Iowa, Des Moines, and 
Iowa City Army Recruiting Companies to levels of efficiency that would allow them to achieve 
their mission. Army recruiting companies in Iowa account for three of the 54 companies in the 
3rd Recruiting Brigade. The companies identified are representative of the more than 280 
recruiting companies within USAREC. The U.S. Army Recruiting Command is comprised of 
five separate recruiting brigades; therefore, narrowing the scope to analyze the errors associated 
with Iowa Army Recruiting Companies should allow for greater insightfulness as to how to re-
shape USAREC into an organization that achieves success as it had for the 12 years before 2018. 
      This phenomenological qualitative study was conducted to analyze the leadership 
attributes, managerial methodologies, organizational citizenship behaviors, and training and 
resources that result in successes or shortfalls within three selected Army recruiting companies. 
Establishing the critical fundamentals associated with the constructive and fruitful behaviors will 
eliminate the costly fluctuations these companies have experienced while streamlining them into 
an approach that will deliver consistently positive results. This study was also conducted to 
analyze what managers are doing effectively to facilitate the recruiting process and review and 
define behaviors that keep the respective recruiting companies from achieving success. The 
primary qualitative research method used was the semistructured interview process to ask open-
ended questions to elicit sufficient data to reach the proper saturation level. Critical concepts, 
phenomena, and ideas will capture management methods, level of influence, subordinates’ 
perceptions of their leaders, organizational commitment, levels of power, and expertise levels. 
Participants included active and reserve component Recruiters and recruiting Station 
Commanders from the three Army recruiting companies covering the State of Iowa. 
      The researcher followed the interview methods established by Yuksel and Y?ld?r?m’s 
(2015) interview process. The interview model originally stemmed from Seidman (1998), who 
divided his approach into three separate interviews to ensure he gathered the appropriate 
phenomenological data. A researcher-developed interview guide was the tool used to elicit the 
subject’s perceptions and experiences associated with positive and effective leadership in 
recruiting.
      Participants were asked a series of questions to establish a dialogue about Recruiters’ and 
Station Commanders’ perceptions of their leader. The interviewer began by asking subjects to 
describe the best leader they have worked for while serving in the United States Army. Once the 
dialogue had been created between the researcher and the respondent, the researcher elicited the 
respondent’s perceptions of their leaders by capturing respondents’ lived experiences with their 
leaders. The researcher responded with follow-up questions that probed for further information 
from the subjects throughout the interview. 
      Questions from the interview guide focused on effective leader behaviors, leader-member 
exchanges, and industry-specific elements. Emotional intelligence was looked for as a recurring 
theme throughout the process. The interviewer solicited information from participants regarding 
how Recruiters and Station Commanders operate with their leader regularly. The researcher 
looked for themes throughout the interview to indicate respondents’ perceptions of whether their 
LMX is a high-functioning or low-functioning dyadic relationship. 
      Lastly, the researcher analyzed Recruiters’ and Station Commanders’ experiences that 
described how positive and effective leadership influences success or failure in Iowa Army 
recruiting companies. The focus was on how effective a leader is in USAREC from the 
perspective of the participants. The responses engendered additional dialogues between the 
interviewer and the participant. After the interviewing phase, the researcher obtained sufficient 
data saturation while capturing the essence of Recruiters’ and Station Commanders’ lived 
experiences within Iowa Army Recruiting Companies.
      The data analysis procedures followed an 8-step protocol covering the process once the 
data had been collected during the semistructured interview. The eight steps were followed just 
as Yuksel and Y?ld?r?m (2015) set forth their data analysis procedures. The end goal was to 
capture the essence of each Recruiter’s or Station Commander’s experience through three meta-
categories of analyses: phenomenological reduction, imagination variation, and essence 
(Moustakas, 1994). The steps were conducted as follows:
1.	 Phenomenological reduction: This process included a holistic approach of bracketing, 
horizontaling, and grouping related themes together while establishing textural language 
(Moustakas, 1994). The textural language during the phenomenological reduction process 
focused on capturing not only the “external object but also the internal act of 
consciousness, the experience as such, the rhythm and relationship between phenomenon 
and self” (Moustakas, 1994, p. 88). Typical perception and analysis call for a researcher 
to take a straight-forward analytic approach to an object, whereas phenomenological 
reduction calls for a researcher to focus on an object’s perceived experience (Miller, 
1984; Moustakas, 1994).
2.	Imagination Variation: The second phase of the phenomenological data analysis process 
called for the researcher to “seek possible meanings through the utilization of 
imagination, varying from the frames of reference, employing polarities and reversals, 
and approaching the phenomenon from divergent perspectives, different positions, roles, 
or functions” (Moustakas, 1994, p. 93). The goal was to identify more than the simple 
object being analyzed; instead, the researcher had to define “the ‘how’ that speaks to 
conditions that illuminated the ‘what’ of experience” (Moustakas, 1994, p. 93). Through 
collecting data, the researcher had to describe the interviewee’s experience, perceptions, 
and memories (Husserl, 1931).
3.	Essence: The end goal of the phenomenological data analysis process was to execute the 
“intuitive integration of the fundamental textural and structural descriptions into a unified 
statement of the essences of experience of the phenomenon as a whole” (Moustakas, 
1994, p. 95). Capturing the essence of experience required the researcher to synthesize 
the words, experiences, and feelings of interviewees captured during the semistructured 
interview (Moustakas, 1994). 
      Data were analyzed using computer-assisted qualitative data analysis software 
(CAQDAS). Using CAQDAS is standard practice during the research process’s coding and 
analysis phase (Lucas, 2017). CAQDAS was a valuable tool to manage significant data sources 
to search through and retrieve data, keywords, and identified themes within the interview 
responses (Lucas, 2017). Analyzing the responses gathered from the conducted interviews was 
critical in performing the following:
*	The analysis of differences, similarities, and relationships between passages of text,
*	The development of typologies and theories,
*	The testing of theoretical assumptions using qualitative data material and integrating 
qualitative and quantitative methods (Flick, Kardorff, & Steinke, 2004).
      The researcher used the CAQDAS tool, NVivo, provided by Northcentral University as 
the primary program to facilitate the coding process. The interview responses gathered during the 
semistructured interviews were transcribed by the TapeaCall application before the researcher 
uploaded the transcripts into the NVivo software. Once the interviews were transcribed and 
uploaded into NVivo, the researcher could quickly identify recurring themes and other codes.
      The data results indicated a positive relationship between effective and positive 
leadership in Iowa Army Recruiting Companies and their success. The three Army recruiting 
companies in Iowa have been relatively successful despite challenges faced in recent years. 
Despite ongoing difficulties, positive and effective leadership methods have proven to motivate 
and influence the one hundred and one Recruiters or Station Commanders currently assigned to 
Iowa. From the perspective of Recruiters and Station Commanders, leaders in Iowa Army 
Recruiting Companies are positively influencing their teams to be successful for the most part. 
There were instances of toxic leadership or situations when leaders were not as involved as they 
should have been; however, most respondents believe their leaders are positively influencing 
their organization.
      Limitations to this research design stemmed from the randomized sampling procedures. 
The researcher identified 101 Soldiers throughout the Iowa Army recruiting companies; 
however, the researcher did not remove potential interviewees based on previous experiences or 
time associated with the companies. The limitations related to respondents’ potentially limited 
amount of time with the organization were not an issue. Every respondent interviewed had more 
than a year with their team, which served as long enough to gather the interview data. The large 
sample size counteracted the limitations identified. Creating a sample size that included over 
25% of the target population was to account for Recruiters not wanting to participate and to 
ensure there was sufficient data saturation.
      Additionally, limitations existed with the randomly selected interviewees who work 
within the same company as the researcher. While the respondents no longer worked with the 
researcher, they knew the researcher could contact their supervisors. The ease of access and 
communication for those within the Northern Iowa Army Recruiting Company could have made 
respondents apprehensive about being truthful and open during their interviews. To counteract 
this limitation, the researcher reiterated the confidentiality practices associated with the research 
process. Furthermore, the researcher provided respondents with the contact information to the 
researcher’s university and dissertation committee should participants feel as though their 
confidentiality had been compromised. The goal was to ensure all interviewees felt free to 
answer questions truthfully and elaborate as deemed appropriate.
      This chapter includes an overview of the problem statement, purpose statement, research 
design, methodology of the study, results of the data, and the effects of the study’s limitations. 
The following sections will be discussed by the researcher and cover the implications of the 
findings, the recommendations for practice, and future research recommendations. The 
researcher will then close out the manuscript with a conclusion and final comments.
Implications
      The implications of the findings describe how leaders in Iowa Army Recruiting 
Companies use effective and positive leadership to influence their organization to achieve 
mission success. The phenomenological qualitative research design was used specifically to 
capture the essence of Recruiters’ and Station Commanders’ lived-experiences as members of 
Iowa Army Recruiting Companies. The researcher developed several relationships between the 
data analysis results and how influential leaders in Iowa were with positive and effective 
leadership behaviors. A positive relationship was found in all four research questions and is 
described by the researcher in the following sections.
Research Question 1
      To what extent does positive and effective leadership play a role in mission success or 
failure in Iowa Army Recruiting Companies from Recruiters’ and Station Commanders’ 
perspective? The researcher established four themes during the analysis of the first research 
question: Leader involvement, leader support for actions, leader satisfaction with performance, 
and positive work relationship.
      The researcher established research question one to identify how positive and effective 
leadership played a role in mission success or failure for Recruiters in Iowa. The researcher 
established a constructive relationship between positive and effective leadership and mission 
success in Iowa Army Recruiters and Station Commanders, from their perspectives. Respondents 
who reported their leaders do not leverage the positive and effective leadership practices reported 
they are not successfully achieving their mission. A higher number of recruiting stations 
accomplished their assigned goals than those who did not, and a relationship existed with a 
predominantly effective and positive leadership approach throughout Iowa Army Recruiting 
Companies. 
      High-performing LMX relationships were also an indicator of high-functioning teams. 
Leader involvement was one of the many hands of a highly successful organization. High levels 
of leader involvement align with the Army’s view on leader involvement being a critical piece 
associated with optimal organizational performance (Headquarters, 2019a). Nine of the 10 
respondents answered their leaders would consistently go above and beyond to assist with any of 
their Soldiers’ needs. Leader involvement, leader support for actions, respondents feeling 
confident in their leader’s satisfaction with their performance, and positive work relationships 
were critical components of successful recruiting stations from Recruiters and Station 
Commanders’ perspectives. The themes were interconnected; where the researcher discovered 
positive work relationships, the researcher typically found high occurrences of the other four 
themes. The four themes associated with Research Question 1 supported the theoretical 
framework and the research design findings.
Research Question 2
      How do Recruiters’ attitudes and overall comprehension of Army recruiting practices 
influence their ability to be productive and effective in achieving recruitment goals in Iowa 
Army Recruiting Companies from Recruiters’ and Station Commanders’ perspective? The 
researcher established three themes during the analysis of the second research question: the 
proficiency levels of Recruiters and Station Commanders, leader engagement in daily operations, 
and leaders supporting their teams.
      The researcher utilized Research Question 2 as a tool to discover how Recruiters’ and 
Station Commanders’ attitudes influence their ability to be productive and effective. In addition 
to how influential their attitudes were, the researcher also wanted to establish if a relationship 
existed between the comprehension level of recruiting practices and productivity and 
effectiveness. Of the two influencers, a more substantial relationship existed between Recruiters 
with a positive attitude toward recruiting than a relationship between comprehension levels and 
efficiency. It was more critical for Recruiters in Iowa Army Recruiting Companies to have a 
positive and productive outlook toward recruiting than to comprehend all aspects of the job 
thoroughly.
      Only five of the respondents stated they were fully prepared to conduct their daily 
operations as Recruiters and Station Commanders. More than 50% of the recruiting stations 
achieved their assigned missions or came close to doing so. There was no definitive relationship 
between comprehension of the role and the level of success realized. Despite a clear connection 
between comprehension and mission success, respondents tended to be more optimistic about 
their positions when they had a better comprehension of their duties. The positive outlook and 
limited preparedness level were supplemented by a high level of leader engagement in daily 
operations, which was the second theme. Recruiters and Station Commanders did not perceive a 
limited comprehension of their job to be devastating if they had a leader who they perceived was 
fully engaged in all aspects of the team’s goals. Leaders who dedicated their time and energy to 
the team’s mission were perceived as highly favorable by Recruiters and Station Commanders. 
There was a clear relationship between leader engagement in daily operations and the success 
level of the organization.
      Like Research Question 1, the themes from Research Question 2 were highly 
interconnected. Leaders supporting their teams was a prevalent occurrence when leaders were 
also engaged in daily operations, leading to a more positive outlook on the job and higher 
organizational performance. Leaders who supported their teams had higher employee job 
attitudes, which is supported by the research in that positive job attitudes are connected to higher 
commitment levels, lower turnover rates, higher levels of organizational citizenship behaviors, 
and higher levels of personal and professional satisfaction (Erdogan & Bauer, 2015; Gerstner & 
Day, 1995; Ilies et al., 2007). Respondents’ job satisfaction and commitment levels were aligned 
with Locke’s requirements to effectively implement goal-setting theory (Latham & Locke, 
2018). The higher levels of organizational citizenship behaviors and personal satisfaction support 
and further the importance of the literature on effective leadership behaviors (Yukl, 2012). 
Leaders supporting their team members through the display of positive regard, assisting 
employees through difficult times, and facilitating teamwork is a fundamental part of relations-
oriented behaviors. Iowa Army Recruiting Company leaders not only displayed these relation-
oriented leadership behaviors, but their actions support the theory’s effectiveness in leading an 
organization.
Research Question 3
      What are the Iowa Army Recruiting Company Leadership Teams’ dominant leadership 
characteristics from the Recruiters’ and Station  Commanders’ perspective? The researcher 
established three themes during the analysis of the third research question: Relations-oriented 
leadership behaviors, toxic leadership, and effective communication. 
      The three themes the researcher discovered while analyzing Research Question 3 
established the relationship between effective and positive leadership behaviors within Iowa 
Army Recruiting Companies and mission achievement. The first theme focused on the use of 
relations-oriented leadership behaviors and how they influenced productivity and effectiveness. 
Leaders who focused on positive LMXs and increasing organizational efficiency were also 
focused on the relations-oriented aspect of Yukl’s (2012) effective leadership behaviors. Nine 
respondents stated they believe a relations-oriented leadership approach was necessary to be 
successful in Army recruiting. Only one respondent said they thought toxic leadership was an 
appropriate approach to push productivity in recruiting stations.
      Related to the second theme, despite only one respondent perceiving toxic leadership as 
an appropriate leadership strategy to achieve mission success, four respondents stated their CLTs 
employ some form of toxic leadership to achieve results. There was a high relationship between 
unsuccessful recruiting stations and the use of toxic leadership behaviors. However, it should be 
noted that there were also instances of toxic leadership present in successful recruiting stations. 
The researcher established that small occurrences of toxic leadership behaviors were not 
definitive of an ineffective recruiting station. Instead, the leaders who relied solely on toxic 
leadership behaviors could not achieve consistent results.
      The third theme, effective communication, was a reoccurring element associated with 
successful and productive recruiting stations. Locke’s goal-setting theory relies on effective 
leadership fundamentals – leaders must clearly and precisely define expectations if employees 
effectively accomplish tasks (Locke & Latham, 2002). Leaders must explain hard to achieve 
goals and communicate their subordinates’ expectations to elicit peak organizational 
performance. Only through communicating the organization’s mission effectively can a leader 
drive productivity (Latham, 2012). Nine of the respondents perceived their CLTs employed 
effective communication methods. CLTs used various tactics to ensure communication was 
always open and encouraging productivity as opposed to creating obstacles. CLTs’ effective 
communication use also ties back in with the effective use of relations-oriented leadership 
behaviors and high-performing LMXs, as previously discussed.
      The results of Research Question 3 further the relationship between leading organizations 
and implementing effective goal-setting theory techniques. Locke’s goal-setting theory’s third 
moderator is founded on effective employee feedback (Latham & Locke, 2018). Regardless of 
government or civilian, employees require constant feedback to maintain performance levels 
(Latham & Locke, 2018). Employees who lack a steady stream of feedback from their 
supervisors may be unaware of situations where they should increase, decrease, or abandon 
potentially detrimental workplace behaviors. Engaged leaders who provide regular feedback 
through effective communication exemplify the many positive leadership methods employed by 
Iowa Army Recruiting Company leaders.
Research Question 4
      What are the driving factors for Army Recruiters’ productivity and effectiveness in Iowa 
Army Recruiting Companies, from Recruiters’ and Station Commanders’ perspective? The 
researcher established two themes while analyzing Research Question 4: incentives and intrinsic 
motivation. 
      Leaders in USAREC have the arduous task of driving productivity within their 
formations to achieve congressionally mandated end-strength requirements of the U.S. Army 
(John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act, 2019). Army leadership is founded on 
influencing a team to achieve success and improve the organization (Headquarters, 2019a). 
Army leaders are trained to influence their teams to achieve organizational goals while 
simultaneously developing their subordinates to be successful leaders in their organization. 
Recruiters and Station Commanders perceived incentives as an excellent motivator for 
themselves and their teammates to strive for success. Eight respondents stated time off from 
work was their primary motivator. Respondents also said being given total autonomy was the 
driving factor for their success. Leaders in Iowa Army Recruiting Companies are doing an 
efficient job of incentivizing productivity. The incentivization of productivity aligns with 
Locke’s goal-setting theory, which focuses on challenging but achievable tasks with clearly 
communicated rewards (Latham, 2012).
      Intrinsic motivation was demonstrated to have a relationship with productive and 
effective Recruiters in Iowa Army Recruiting Companies. Intrinsic motivation is one of the 
components of emotional intelligence, and one of the necessary traits Recruiters must have if 
they are going to be successful. Respondents who displayed intrinsic motivation indicators stated 
their driving factors were to make their team the best and maintain the autonomy to conduct 
daily operations on their terms. There was a high relationship between Recruiters and Station 
Commanders who were naturally motivated to achieve success and productive and effective 
recruiting stations. Intrinsic motivation furthers the theory of the importance of emotional 
intelligence in the workplace. Employees in Iowa Army Recruiting Companies who indicated 
high levels of emotional intelligence were more resilient and had higher perceptions of their 
duties. Those who displayed emotional intelligence also perceived themselves as more successful 
than those who did not display emotional intelligence indicators. 
      Incentivization and intrinsic motivation are concepts that solidify the theoretical 
framework of this dissertation. Locke’s goal-setting theory’s four moderators include a critical 
aspect of commitment from the individual and team achieving the goal (Latham & Locke, 2018). 
The other three factors are essential, as well. Still, an individual must be committed to achieving 
the mission if the goal-setting theory is to work (Latham & Locke, 2018). Leaders in Iowa Army 
Recruiting Companies successfully incentivized while synchronously leveraging their 
teammates’ intrinsic motivation to clinch success. The use of goal-setting theory techniques 
contributes to the existing theory by demonstrating it can be implemented in an Army recruiting 
organization, an area previously lacking substantial research and analysis.
      One factor that could have influenced the results, and possibly, the interpretation of the 
results, is eight of the 10 respondents held the primary MOS of 79R. Maintaining the primary 
MOS 79R means that a Soldier has recently reclassified to be a career Recruiter, as opposed to 
completing a three-year tour and returning, or are in the Station Commander position and have 
served in USAREC for an extended period. Recruiters or Station Commanders who have served 
in USAREC for an extended period may have judged their leader’s managerial methods against 
former assignments instead of answering the interview questions objectively. The researcher 
selected a vast enough population to capture 79Rs and DASRs; however, due to randomization 
and the number of respondents who agreed to be interviewed, there was a more extensive 
representation of 79Rs.
      A second factor that could have influenced the interpretation of the results was the global 
circumstances stemming from COVID-19. USAREC is still adapting to operating during an 
evolving challenge surrounding maintaining the force’s strength during a worldwide pandemic. 
Recruiting stations in Iowa even proved to be holding a level of success commensurate with the 
ongoing challenges. Depending on the leadership methods adjusted during the COVID-19 
pandemic, Recruiters and Station Commanders could have altered perceptions of their leaders’ 
strengths and weaknesses. The researcher was aware of the circumstances potentially affecting 
Iowa Army Recruiting Companies’ abilities to be successful during this timeframe and did not 
allow it to alter or influence the interpretation of the results.
Recommendations for Practice
      The researcher’s primary finding was leaders assigned to USAREC can leverage positive 
and effective leadership principles to drive productivity and achieve mission success in their 
organizations. Respondents in this study described their ideal work situations where they 
experienced engaged leaders supporting their teams could effectively drive productivity with the 
right leadership approaches synchronized with proper incentivization. The concepts of positive 
and effective leadership married with positive leadership approaches and adequate 
incentivization can be found in leadership theory, USAREC publications, and Army Doctrine 
Publications. Leaders in USAREC should use this study’s findings and apply similar 
methodologies to boost productivity and effectiveness in their companies and areas of 
responsibility.
      The researcher found a relationship between leaders in Iowa Army Recruiting Companies 
and Locke’s goal-setting theory’s successful implementation. Throughout USAREC and civilian 
organizations, leaders should focus on goal-setting theory’s core components to increase 
employee productivity (Latham, 2012). The researcher identified intrinsic motivation and 
positive attitudes while analyzing the data. Knowledge or ability is one of the core foundations 
required before goal-setting theory can be implemented. Comprehensions of Army recruiting 
practices did not prove to be a deterrent from recruiting stations realizing success; however, 
“knowledge or ability is a prerequisite” (Latham, 2012, p. 66). Iowa Army Recruiting 
Companies could boost productivity and realize even greater success levels if they focus on 
training and development. Enhancing the organization’s knowledge base while maintaining 
leader engagement levels in daily operations and leader support for their teams could boost the 
unit to significantly higher levels of mission achievement. Leaders in Iowa Army Recruiting 
Companies have covered the other core components of goal-setting theory: goal commitment, 
feedback, and task complexity; now, they should focus on ability (Locke & Latham, 2019). 
Training and leader development will help address the concerns identified in Research Question 
2 that concentrated on Recruiters’ and Station Commanders’ proficiency levels.
      Relations-oriented leadership behaviors focus on the connections between leaders, 
employees, and the organization in a circular fashion. Recruiters must be as dedicated to the 
mission as the organization is to the Recruiters, just as Station Commanders must support 
Recruiters as Recruiters must support their supervisors and the unit (Yukl, 2012). The researcher 
recommends following Iowa Army Recruiting Companies’ focus on relations-oriented leadership 
behaviors. Organizations that focus on the importance of the leader-member exchange have a 
significant relationship with organizational success (Jyoti & Bhau, 2015; Martin, 2015; Yukl, 
2012). Recruiters and Station Commanders perceived high-performing LMXs to boost 
productivity and effectiveness, just as researchers and Army doctrine describe it. The researcher 
recommends organizations focus on relations-oriented leadership behaviors’ core components to 
include supporting, developing, recognizing, and empowering actions through two-way 
exchanges.
Recommendations for Future Research 
      The researcher recommends further phenomenological qualitative research analyses in 
USAREC. Iowa Army Recruiting Companies represent three of the more than 250 recruiting 
companies that make up the United States Army Recruiting Command. Iowa Army Recruiting 
Companies were selected based on their fluctuation in success over the last decade. 2018 proved 
to be a year where Iowa Army Recruiting Companies did not realize success; however, 2019 and 
2020 proved to be significantly better despite ongoing operational and environmental challenges. 
Researchers should continue to conduct phenomenological research on recruiting companies that 
realized success or failure to determine the driving factors from the Recruiters’ and Station 
Commanders’ perspectives. Further research could determine if other recruiting companies 
leverage the leadership principles associated with Iowa Army Recruiting Companies.
      A second recommendation is to research further the effects of toxic leadership within 
recruiting organizations. Toxic leadership was related to overworking and the eventual suicides 
of multiple Recruiters and Station Commanders in 2009 (McChesney, 2009). The majority of 
those who participated in this research study perceived their leaders leveraged the principles 
associated with positive and effective leadership. However, some respondents reported elements 
of toxic leadership behaviors. Only one respondent said their leader’s use of toxic leadership 
behaviors was what they believed to have been the key to their success. Toxic leadership 
behaviors are considered hostile and abusive behaviors that destroy the organization’s trust and 
credibility while spurring resentment (Yukl, 2012). The majority of those interviewed perceived 
positive and effective leadership were the keys to influencing success in recruiting organizations. 
The slight indication of toxic leadership behaviors leading to successful outcomes leaves 
researchers with the potential to investigate toxic leadership’s actual effects on a recruiting 
organization as perceived through Recruiters’ lived experiences.
      One of the identified limitations was related to the potential to miss Recruiters or Station 
Commanders with enough longevity in the organization who could give enough data during the 
interview process. The researcher determined during the interviewing and analysis process that 
the opposite existed. The researcher was able to achieve sufficient data saturation to the point 
where it was not an issue; however, there was a potential to miss the perceptions of newer 
Recruiters and Station Commanders. Future researchers have an opportunity to 
phenomenologically analyze the Recruiters and Station Commanders by dividing up the 
population into groups determined by the amount of time in USAREC or the recruiting 
companies being examined. Separating the population into groups defined by their time in the 
organization would give future researchers the ability to capture perspectives from both 
perspectives and analyze them for similarities and differences.
      The researcher also recommends that future researchers select a population with which 
they have no prior relationship. The researcher’s previous relationship to Iowa Army Recruiting 
Companies did not prove a conflict of interest, nor did the researcher perceive to have failed to 
capture the data saturation point required for this research design; still, it may have limited the 
number of participants who partook in interviews. The researcher was able to capture the lived-
experiences of 10 Recruiters and Station Commanders from Iowa Army Recruiting Companies. 
The researcher was abundantly clear with the interviewer’s confidentiality and ethical 
obligations during the data collection process. Even still, potential respondents may have been 
deterred by the interviewer’s prior relationship with colleagues in Iowa. Future researchers could 
select a larger population and potentially elicit a larger number of participants if the respondents 
do not have to be concerned with their feedback becoming public knowledge. Choosing an 
utterly random population in USAREC can further solidify or contradict the researcher’s findings 
and may be worth investigating. 
Conclusions
	The researcher investigated the positive and effective leadership practices within Iowa 
Army Recruiting Companies to maximize Recruiter efficiency. The researcher investigated the 
positive and effective leadership practices to address how Iowa Army Recruiting Companies had 
failed to leverage Recruiter productivity and efficiency in 2018. The three companies that cover 
the State of Iowa are a small subset of the more than 250 Army recruiting companies worldwide. 
With Iowa Army Recruiting Companies maintaining success, it was important for the researcher 
to determine what practices leaders are implementing to lead them to mission success. The 
findings, results, and implications can be used from this study throughout USAREC and similar 
civilian organizations to boost productivity and organizational success.
	The researcher found that leaders in Iowa Army Recruiting Companies leverage multiple 
leadership theories to lead their organizations to success. Iowa companies focus on goal-setting 
theory, effective leadership behaviors, high-performing LMXs, and promoting emotional 
intelligence as the foundations for their success. This study’s findings solidify the theoretical 
framework and literature pieces instrumental in developing this research design. Furthermore, 
this research study’s results support the leadership principles outlined in USAREC publications 
and Army doctrine publications, focusing on influencing and inspiring one’s team to achieve 
success and improve one’s organization.
	The researcher recommended replicating methods currently in place by Iowa Army 
Recruiting Companies to guide positive and effective leadership practices. The researcher also 
recommended analyzing the effects of toxic leadership behaviors on Army recruiting 
organizations. Both recommendations for future research would contribute to the organization 
and the literary framework of leadership and human resources theories. The researcher was one 
of only a few to analyze leadership behaviors in Army recruiting organizations. 
Recommendations for further research detail the potential to improve upon the researcher’s 
findings by expanding phenomenological qualitative analyses throughout Army and civilian 
recruiting companies. Other studies would continue to solidify, or potentially dispute, the effects 
of positive and effective leadership in Army recruiting organizations.
	USAREC exists to support the United States Army’s congressionally mandated end-
strength requirements (John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act, 2019). It is a 
national defense priority for the Army to maintain its personnel strengths. Recruiters have the 
vital task of finding qualified volunteers to support and defend the United States of America. 
Leaders in USAREC have the trying task of influencing, training, motivating, and supporting the 
Recruiters tasked with this unbelievably complex job. This study’s results revealed a relationship 
between high-performing recruiting organizations who achieved their tasks and were successful 
and positive and effective leadership behaviors implemented by leaders in Iowa Army Recruiting 
Companies. The perceptions of Recruiters and Station Commanders were that positive and 
effective leadership significantly contributed to their ability to be successful and achieve their 
mission. Leaders throughout USAREC should leverage the principles identified in this study to 
boost their organization’s productivity and effectiveness if they are not already. Organizations 
that leverage positive and effective leadership should be encouraged to continue and distribute 
their lessons on how influential positive and effective leadership is in Army recruiting 
organizations.


References
Adams, W. (2018). Conducting semistructured interviews. In K. Newcomer, H. Hatry, & J. 
Wholey (Eds.), Handbook of practical program evaluation (4th ed.), 472–504. Jossey-
Bass.
Alase, A. (2017). The interpretative phenomenological analysis (IPA): A guide to good 
qualitative research approach. International Journal of Education & Literacy Studies, 
5(2), 9–19. https://doi.org/10.7575/aiac.ijels.v.5n.2p.9
Amor, A. M., Vázquez, J. P. A., & Faíña, J. A. (2019). Transformational leadership and work 
engagement: Exploring the mediating role of structural empowerment. European 
Management Journal, 38(1), 169–178. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.emj.2019.06.007
Anand, S., Vidyarthi, P., & Rolnicki, S. (2017). Leader-member exchange and organizational 
citizenship behaviors: Contextual effects of leader power distance and group task 
interdependence. The Leadership Quarterly, 29, 489–500. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.leaqua.2017.11.002
Argue, M. (2015). The importance of the strategic recruitment and selection process on meeting 
an organization’s objectives [Doctoral dissertation, Dublin Business School]. 
https://esource.dbs.ie/handle/10788/2873
Ashkanasy, N. M., & Daus, C. S. (2005). Rumors of the death of emotional intelligence in 
organizational behavior are vastly exaggerated. Journal of Organizational Behavior, 
26(4), 441–452. https://doi.org/10.1002/job.320
Association of the United States Army. (2018, November 20). Army fell 20,000 below recruiting 
goals. Association of the United States Army. https://www.ausa.org/news/army-fell-
20000-below-recruiting-goals
Bachiochi, P., O’Connor, M., Rogelberg, S., & Elder, A. (2000). The qualities of an effective 
team leader. Organization Development Journal, 18(1), 11–28. 
https://www.semanticscholar.org/
Baldor, L. (2018, September 21). Army misses 2018 recruiting goal. AP News. 
https://apnews.com/4e920aeff0ee41caa152a12df6d89600
Bandura, A. (1997). Self-efficacy: The exercise of control. Freeman.
Barbuto, J. E., Jr., & Story, J. S. P. (2011). Work motivation and organizational citizenship 
behaviors. Journal of Leadership Studies, 5, 23–34. https://doi.org/10.1002/jls.20202
Barrick, M. F., & Mount, M. K. (1991). The big five personality dimensions and job 
performance: A meta-analysis. Personnel Psychology, 44, 1–26. 
https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1744-6570.1991.tb00688.x
Barrick, M. F., & Mount, M. K. (2005). Yes, personality matters: Moving on to more important 
matters. Human Performance, 18, 359–372. 
https://doi.org/10.1207/s15327043hup1804_3
Barrick, M. F., Stewart, G., Neubert, M., & Mount, M. (1998). Relating member ability and 
personality to work-team processes and team effectiveness. Journal of Applied 
Psychology, 83(3), 377–391. https://doi.org/10.1037/0021-9010.83.3.377
Bartlett, B., Gui, L., Gulland, S., Grehan, J., Kuncik, A., Medoff, S., Prifti, C., Schiff, S., Cano, 
G. S. (2009). Revitalizing military recruitment without restoring the draft [Unpublished 
manuscript]. Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs, Princeton 
University.
Bartol, K. M., & Martin, D. C. (1989). Effects of dependence, dependence threats, and pay 
secrecy on managerial pay allocations. Journal of Applied Psychology, 74(1), 105–113. 
https://doi.org/10.1037//0021-9010.74.1.105
Bauer, T. N., & Green, S. G. (1996). Development of leader-member exchange: A longitudinal 
test. Academy of Management Journal, 39(6), 1538–1567. 
https://doi.org/10.2307/257068
Baugh, S. G., & Graen, G. B. (1997). Effects of team gender and racial composition on 
perceptions of team performance in cross-functional teams. Group & Organization 
Management, 22(3), 366–383. https://doi.org/10.1177/1059601197223004
Bell, R. (2020). Toxic leadership and followership typologies: A partial replication study with 
scale refinement. Integral Leadership Review, 20(1), 45–57. 
http://integralleadershipreview.com/17427-7-31-toxic-leadership-and-followership-
typologies-a-partial-replication-study-with-scale-refinement/
Bernerth, J. B., Armenakis, A. A., Feild, H. S., Giles, W. F., & Walker, H. J. (2007). Leader-
member social exchange (LMSX): Development and validation of a scale. Journal of 
Organizational Behavior, 28(8), 979–1003. https://doi.org/10.1002/job.443
Bono, J. E., & Ilies, R. (2006). Charisma, positive emotions and mood contagion. The 
Leadership Quarterly, 17(4), 317–334. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.leaqua.2006.04.008
Brackett, M., Rivers, S., & Salovey, P. (2011). Emotional intelligence: Implications for personal, 
social, academic, and workplace success. Social and Personality Psychology Compass, 
5(1), 88–103. https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1751-9004.2010.00334.x
Breaugh, J. (2009). Recruiting and attracting talent: A guide to understanding and managing the 
recruitment process. SHRM Foundation. https://www.shrm.org/hr-today/trends-and-
forecasting/special-reports-and-expert-views/Documents/Recruiting-Attracting-
Talent.pdf
Byrne, D. E. (1971). The attraction paradigm. Academic Press.
Carcary, M. (2009). The research audit trial—Enhancing trustworthiness in qualitative inquiry. 
Electronic Journal of Business Research Methods, 7(1), 11–23. 
http://www.ejbrm.com/search/index.html?name=keywords&value=%20research%20audi
t%20trail 
Cherniss, C. & Goleman, D. (2001). The emotionally intelligent workplace: How to select for, 
measure, and improve emotional intelligence in individuals, groups, and organizations. 
Bantam Books, Inc.
Chonko, L, Madden, C., Tanner, J., & Davis, R. (1991). Analysis of Army Recruiter selling 
techniques. U.S. Army Research Institute for the Behavioral and Social Sciences.
Cilesiz, S. (2009). Educational computer use in leisure contexts: A phenomenological study of 
adolescents’ experiences at Internet cafes. American Educational Research Journal, 
46(1), 232–274. https://doi.org/10.3102/0002831208323938
Conger, J. (1989). Leadership: The art of empowering others. The Academy of Management 
Executive 3(1), 17–24. https://doi.org/10.5465/AME.1989.4277145
Craig, S. & Gustafson, S. (1998). Perceived Leader Integrity Scale: An instrument for assessing 
employee perceptions of leader integrity. Leadership Quarterly, 9(2), 127–145. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/S1048-9843(98)90001-7
Creswell, J. W. (1998). Qualitative inquiry and research design: Choosing among five traditions 
(1st ed.). Sage Publications. 
Creswell, J. W. (2007). Qualitative inquiry & research design: Choosing among five approaches 
(2nd ed.). Sage Publications. 
Creswell, J. W. (2013). Research design: Qualitative, quantitative, and mixed method 
approaches (4th ed.). Sage Publications.
Curtin, J. (1989). Putting self-esteem first. Training & Development Journal, 42(10), 41–44.
Davis, E. (2006, August 03). The role of the hiring manager in recruiting. ERE Media. 
https://www.ere.net/the-role-of-the-hiring-manager-in-recruiting/
Deluga, R. J., & Perry, J. T. (1994). The role of subordinate performance and ingratiation in 
leader-member exchanges. Group & Organization Management, 19(1), 67–86. 
https://doi.org/10.1177/1059601194191004
Denning, S. (2016, May 14). What does ‘career success’ really mean? Forbes. 
https://www.forbes.com/sites/stevedenning/2016/03/14/what-does-career-success-really-
mean/#5bd50f1f7cf5
Denzin, N. (1970). The research act. Transaction Publishers.
Dienesch, R. M., & Liden, R. C. (1986). Leader-member exchange model of leadership: A 
critique and further development. Academy of Management Review, 11(3), 618–634. 
https://doi.org/10.5465/amr.1986.4306242
Dulebohn, J. H., Bommer, W. H., Liden, R. C., Brouer, R. L., & Ferris, G. R. (2012). A meta-
analysis of antecedents and consequences of leader-member exchange: Integrating the 
past with an eye toward the future. Journal of Management, 38(6), 1715–1759. 
https://doi.org/10.1177/0149206311415280
Erdogan, B., & Bauer, T. N. (2015). Leader-member exchange theory. In J. D. Wright (Ed.), 
International encyclopedia of the social & behavioral Sciences (2nd ed., pp. 641–647). 
Elsevier.
Erdogan, B., & Liden, R. (2002). Social exchanges in the workplace: A review of recent 
developments and future research directions in leader-member exchange theory. In L. 
Neider, & C. Schriesheim (Eds.), Leadership (pp. 65–114). Information Age.
Fairhurst, G. T. (2001). Dualisms in leadership research. In L. Putnam, & F. Jablin (Eds.), The 
new handbook of organizational communication (pp. 379–439). Sage Publications.
Felfe, J., & Schyns, B. (2002). The relationship between employees’ occupational self-efficacy 
and perceived transformational leadership - replication and extension of recent results. 
Current Research in Social Psychology, 7(9), 137–162.
Fernet, C., Trepanier, S.-G., Austin, S., Gagne, M., & Forest, J. (2015). Transformational 
leadership and optimal functioning at work: On the mediating role of employees’ 
perceived job characteristics. Work & Stress, 29(1), 11–31. 
https://doi.org/10.1080/02678373.2014.1003998
Fiol, C., & Lyles, M. (1985). Organizational learning. Academy of Management Review, 10(4), 
803–813. https://doi.org/10.2307/258048
Fiske, S. T. (1993). Social cognition and social perception. Annual Review of Psychology, 44, 
155–194. https://doi.org/10.1146/annurev.ps.44.020193.001103
Flick, U., Kardorff, E., & Steinke, I. (2004). A companion to qualitative research. Sage 
Publications.
Ford, R., & Newstrom, J. (1999). Dues-paying: Managing the costs of recognition. Business 
Horizons, 42(4), 14–20. https://doi.org/10.1016/S0007-6813(99)80059-7
Frank, R. (1985). Choosing the right pond: Human behavior and the quest for status. Oxford 
University Press.
Frieman, S. (1986). Sales training for Army Recruiter success: Sales strategies and skills used by 
excellent U.S. Army Recruiters. U.S. Army Research Institute for the Behavioral and 
Social Sciences.
George, J. M., & Zhou, J. (2001). When openness to experience and conscientiousness are 
related to creative behavior: An interactional approach. Journal of Applied Psychology, 
86(3), 513–524. https://doi.org/10.1037/0021-9010.86.3.513
Gerstner, C. R., & Day, D. V. (1997). Meta-analytic review of leader-member exchange theory: 
Correlates and construct issues. Journal of Applied Psychology, 82(6), 827–844. 
https://doi.org/10.1037/0021-9010.82.6.827
Goleman, D. (1995). Emotional intelligence. Bantam Books.
Gonnerman, C., O’Rourke, M., Crowley, S. & Hall, T. (2015). Discovering philosophical 
assumptions that guide action research: the reflexive toolbox approach. In H. Bradbury, 
(Ed.), The SAGE handbook of action research (pp. 673–680). Sage Publications.
Graen, G. B., & Uhl-Bien, M. (1995). Relationship-based approach to leadership: Development 
of leader-member exchange (LMX) theory of leadership over 25 years: Applying a multi-
level multi-domain perspective. Leadership Quarterly, 6(2), 219–247. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/1048-9843(95)90036-5
Graen, G., Liden, R., & Hoel, W. (1982). The role of leadership in the employee withdrawal 
process. Journal of Applied Psychology, 67(6), 868–872. https://doi.org/10.1037/0021-
9010.67.6.868
Gurchiek, K. (2008). Staffing issues critical to business strategies, SHRM report finds. SHRM. 
https://www.shrm.org/hr-today/news/hr-news/pages/staffingissuescritical.aspx
Han, S. S., & Woo, H. Y. (2018). Effects of nurse-perceived authentic leadership and 
organizational culture on job attitude: Focused on the mediating effects of psychological 
capital and leader-member exchange. Biomedical Research, 29(21), 3853–3855. 
https://doi.org/10.4066/biomedicalresearch.29-18-1170
Hassan, H., Asad, S., & Hoshino, Y. (2016). Determinants of leadership style in big five 
personality dimensions. Universal Journal of Management, 4, 161–179. 
https://doi.org/10.13189/ujm.2016.040402
Headquarters. (2017a, February 27). Intelligence (USAREC TC-5-02). U.S. Army Recruiting 
Command. 
https://recruiting.army.mil/Portals/15/Documents/Forms%20and%20Pubs/USAREC%20
Training%20Circulars/UTC%205-02.pdf?ver=2019-02-08-162100-867
Headquarters. (2017b, February 27). Mission command (USAREC TC-5-01). U.S. Army 
Recruiting Command. 
https://recruiting.army.mil/Portals/15/Documents/Forms%20and%20Pubs/USAREC%20
Training%20Circulars/UTC%205-01(V2).pdf?ver=2019-11-20-104440-853
Headquarters. (2018a, July 19). Military occupational classification and structure (DA PAM 
611-21). U.S. Department of the Army. https://ssilrc.army.mil/wp-
content/uploads/2019/10/DA-PAM-611_21-Military-Occupational-Classification-and-
Structure-19-July-2018.pdf
Headquarters. (2018b, December 11). U.S. Army noncommissioned officer professional 
development guide (DA PAM 600-25). U.S. Department of the Army. 
https://armypubs.army.mil/epubs/DR_pubs/DR_a/pdf/web/ARN13774_DAPam600-
25_FINAL.pdf
Headquarters. (2019a, July). Army leadership and the profession (DA ADP 6-22). U.S. 
Department of the Army. 
https://armypubs.army.mil/epubs/DR_pubs/DR_a/pdf/web/ARN20039_ADP%206-
22%20C1%20FINAL%20WEB.pdf
Headquarters. (2019b, July). Mission command (DA ADRP 6-0). U.S. Department of the Army. 
https://usacac.army.mil/sites/default/files/misc/doctrine/CDG/cdg_resources/manuals/adr
p/adrp6_0_new.pdf 
Headquarters. (2019c, July). Operations: Army doctrine publication (DA ADP 3-0). U.S. 
Department of the Army. 
https://armypubs.army.mil/epubs/DR_pubs/DR_a/pdf/web/ARN18010_ADP%203-
0%20FINAL%20WEB.pdf 
Headquarters. (2019d, July). The operations process (DA ADP 5-0). U.S. Department of the 
Army. https://ssilrc.army.mil/wp-content/uploads/2019/10/ADP-5-0-The-Operations-
Process-31-July-2019.pdf 
Headquarters. (2019e, November 14). Recruiting (USAREC Manual 3). U.S. Army Recruiting 
Command. 
https://recruiting.army.mil/Portals/15/Documents/Forms%20and%20Pubs/USAREC%20
Manuals/USAREC%20MANUAL%203(on%20site%20w%20cover).pdf?ver=2019-12-
17-100501-920Headquarters. (2019f, September 18). Recruiting company operations 
(USAREC Manual 3-30). U.S. Army Recruiting Command. 
https://recruiting.army.mil/Portals/15/Documents/Forms%20and%20Pubs/USAREC%20
Manuals/USAREC%20MANUAL%203-30.pdf?ver=2019-10-15-153605-530
Headquarters. (2019g, September 18). Recruiting operations (USAREC Manual 3-0). U.S. Army 
Recruiting Command. 
https://recruiting.army.mil/Portals/15/Documents/Forms%20and%20Pubs/USAREC%20
Manuals/USAREC%20MANUAL%203-0(On%20site%20w%20cover).pdf?ver=2019-
12-17-092905-513
Headquarters. (2019h, September 18). Recruiting station operations (USAREC Manual 3-31). 
U.S. Army Recruiting Command. 
https://recruiting.army.mil/Portals/15/Documents/Forms%20and%20Pubs/USAREC%20
Manuals/USAREC%20Manual%203-31(V3).pdf?ver=2020-03-12-074513-343
Henkel, T., & Marion, J. (2019). Project manager leadership behavior: Task-oriented versus 
relationship-oriented. Journal of Leadership Education, 18(2), 1–14. 
https://doi.org/10.12806/V18/I2/R8
Hiller, N. J., DeChurch, L. A., Murase, T., & Doty, D. (2011). Searching for outcomes of 
leadership: A 25-year review. Journal of Management, 37(4), 1137–1177. 
https://doi.org/10.1177/0149206310393520
Hochwarter, W., & Byrne, Z. (2005). LMX and job tension: Linear and non-linear effects and 
affectivity. Journal of Business and Psychology, 19(4), 505–520. 
https://doi.org/10.1007/s10869-005-4522-6
Hofmann, D. A., Morgeson, F. P., & Gerras, S. J. (2003). Climate as a moderator of the 
relationship between leader-member exchange and content specific citizenship: Safety 
climate as an exemplar. Journal of Applied Psychology, 88(1), 170–178. 
https://doi.org/10.1037/0021-9010.88.1.170
Hui, C., Law, K. S., & Chen, Z. X. (1999). A structural equation model of the effects of negative 
affectivity, leader-member exchange, and perceived job mobility on in-role and extra-role 
performance: A Chinese case. Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes, 
77(1), 3–21. https://doi.org/10.1006/obhd.1998.2812
Husserl, E. (1931). Ideas. George Allen & Unwin.
Husserl, E. (1970). Logical investigation (Vols. 1–2; J. N. Findlay, Trans.). Humanities Press. 
Ilies, R., Nahrgang, J. D., & Morgeson, F. P. (2007). Leader-member exchange and citizenship 
behaviors: A meta-analysis. Journal of Applied Psychology, 92(1), 269–277. 
https://doi.org/10.1037/0021-9010.92.1.269
Jain, A. (2018). Holistic view of emotional intelligence in the workplace: View on utilization & 
benefits. Journal of Services Research, 18(2), 153–164. http://www.jsr-iimt.in/ 
John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019, H.R.5515, Pub. L. 
No. 115-232 (2019). 
Jones, E. E. (1964). Chapter 2. In Ingratiation: A social psychological analysis. Appleton-
Century-Crofts.
Jong, J. D. (2017, January 27). The contest of motivational theories in explaining performance: 
Expectancy vs. goal setting [Master’s thesis, Eramus University]. 
http://www.semanticscholar.org
Joseph, D. L., Dhanani, L. Y., Shen, W., McHugh, B. C., & McCord, M. A. (2015). Is a happy 
leader a good leader? A meta-analytic investigation of leader trait affect and leadership. 
The Leadership Quarterly, 26(4), 557–576. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.leaqua.2015.04.001
Jyoti, J., & Bhau, S. (2015). Impact of transformational leadership on job performance: 
Mediating role of leader–member exchange and relational identification. SAGE Open, 1–
13. https://doi.org/10.1177/2158244015612518
Kaiser K. (2009). Protecting respondent confidentiality in qualitative research. Qualitative 
Health Research, 19(11), 1632–1641. https://doi.org/10.1177/1049732309350879
Kalyani, M., & Vihar, V. (2011, November). Innovative culture: An intervention strategy for 
sustainable growth in changing scenario. International Journal of Business, 2(4), 84–92. 
https://doi.org/10.5430.ijba.v2n4p84
Kim, D., Choi, D., & Vandenberghe, C. (2018). Goal-focused leadership, leader-Member 
exchange, and task performance: The moderating effects of goal orientations and 
emotional exhaustion. Journal of Business and Psychology, 33(5), 645–660. 
https://doi.org/10.1007/s10869-017-9516-7
Kirchmeyer, C. (1995). Demographic similarity to the work group: A longitudinal study of 
managers at the early career stage. Journal of Organizational Behavior, 16(1), 67–83. 
https://doi.org/10.1002/job.4030160109
Kirin, S. & Winkler, J. (1992). The Army military occupational specialty database. RAND.
Koontz, H. (1965). Challenges for intellectual leadership in management. California 
Management Review, 7(4), 11–18. https://doi.org/10.2307/41165642
Kotter, J., & Cohen, D. (2002). The heart of change: Real-life stories of how people change their 
organizations. Harvard Business Review Press.
Kuhnert, K. W., & Lewis, P. (1987). Transactional and transformational leadership: A 
constructive/developmental analysis. Academy of Management Review, 12(4), 648–657. 
https://doi.org/10.2307/258070
Lado, M., & Alonso, P. (2017). The five-factor model and job performance in low complexity 
jobs: A quantitative synthesis. Journal of Work and Organizational Psychology, 33(3), 
175–182. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rpto.2017.07.004
Landy, F. J. (1985). Psychology of work behavior. Dorsey Press.
Latham, G. P. (2012). Work motivation: History, theory, research, and practice. Sage 
Publications.
Latham, G., & Locke, E. (2018). Goal setting theory: Controversies and resolutions. In G. 
Latham, & E. Locke (Eds.), The SAGE handbook of industrial, work & organizational 
psychology (pp. 145–166). Sage Publications.
Leary, M. R., Rogers, P. A., Canfield, R. W., & Coe, C. (1986). Boredom in interpersonal 
encounters: Antecedents and social implications. Journal of Personality and Social 
Psychology, 51(5), 968–975. https://doi.org/10.1037/0022-3514.51.5.968
Lebowitz, S. (2015, May 07). Why people with agreeable personalities are less likely to become 
top managers. https://www.businessinsider.com/agreeable-personality-and-leadership-
2015-5
LePine, J. A., Colquitt, J. A., & Erez, A. (2000). Adaptability to changing task contexts: Effects 
of general cognitive ability, conscientiousness, and openness to experience. Personnel 
Psychology, 53(3), 563–593. https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1744-6570.2000.tb00214.x
Lesabe, R. A.-F., & Nkosi, J. (2007). A qualitative exploration of employees’ views on 
organizational commitment. Journal of Human Resource Management, 5(1), 35–44. 
https://sajhrm.co.za/index.php/sajhrm/article/download/106/107
Lichtenstein, R., Alexander, J. A., Jinnett, K., & Ullman, E. (1997). Embedded intergroup 
relations in interdisciplinary teams: Effects of perceptions of level of team integration. 
Journal of Applied Behavioral Science, 33(4), 413–434. 
https://doi.org/10.1177/0021886397334001
Liden, R. C., & Graen, G. B. (1980). Generalizability of the vertical dyad linkage model of 
leadership. Academy of Management Journal, 23(3), 451–465. 
https://doi.org/10.2307/255511
Liden, R. C., & Maslyn, J. M. (1998). Multidimensionality of leader-member exchange: An 
empirical assessment through scale development. Journal of Management, 24(1), 43–72. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/S0149-2063(99)80053-1
Liden, R. C., Sparrowe, R. T., & Wayne, S. (1997). Leader-member exchange theory: The past 
and potential for the future. In G. Ferris (Ed.), Research in personnel and human 
resources management (pp. 47–119). Emerald.
Liden, R. C., Wayne, S. J., & Stilwell, D. (1993). A longitudinal study on the early development 
of leader-member exchanges. Journal of Applied Psychology, 78(4), 662–674. 
https://doi.org/10.1037/0021-9010.78.4.662
Lindgard, L., Albert, M., & Levinson, W. (2008). Qualitative research: Grounded theory, mixed 
methods, and action research. British Medical Journal, 337(7667), 459–461. 
https://doi.org/ 10.1136/bmj.39602.690162.47
Lis, A. (2015). The manifestations of positive leadership strategies in the doctrinal assumptions 
of the U.S. Army leadership concept. Journal of Corporate Responsibility and 
Leadership, 2(1), 51–76. https://doi.org/10.12775/JCRL.2015.004
Locke, E. A. (1968). Toward a theory of task motivation and incentives. Organizational 
Behavior and Human Performance, 3(2), 157–189. https://doi.org/10.1016/0030-
5073(68)90004-4
Locke, E. A. (1976). The nature and causes of job satisfaction. In M. D. Dunnette, Handbook of 
industrial and organizational psychology (pp. 1297-1349). Rand McNally.
Locke, E. A. (2007). The case for inductive theory building. Journal of Management, 33(6), 
867–890. https://doi.org/10.1177/0149206307307636
Locke, E. A., & Latham, G. P. (1990). A theory of goal setting and task performance. Prentice 
Hall.
Locke, E. A., & Latham, G. P. (2002). Building a practically useful theory of goal setting and 
task motivation: A 35-year odyssey. American Psychologist, 57(9), 705–717. 
https://doi.org/10.1037/0003-066X.57.9.705
Locke, E. A., & Latham, G. P. (2005). Goal setting theory: Theory by induction. In K. Smith, & 
M. Hitts (Eds.), Great minds in management: The process of theory development (pp. 
128–150). Oxford Press.
Locke, E. A., & Latham, G. P. (2013). New developments in goal setting and task performance. 
Routledge. 
Locke, E. A., Saari, L. M., Shaw, K. N., & Latham, G. P. (1981). Goal setting and task 
performance: 1969–1980. Psychological Bulletin, 90(1), 125–152. 
https://doi.org/10.1037/0033-2909.90.1.125
Locke, E., & Latham, G. (2019). The development of goal setting theory: A half century 
retrospective. Motivation Science, 5(2), 93–105. https://doi.org/10.1037/mot0000127
Lopes, P. N., Cote, S., & Salovey, P. (2006). An ability model of emotional intelligence: 
Implications for assessment and training. In V. Druskat, F. Sala, & G. Mount (Eds.), 
Linking emotional intelligence and performance at work (pp. 53–80). Lawrence Erlbaum 
Associates.
Lopes, P. N., Grewal, D., Kadis, J., Gall, M., & Salovey, P. (2006). Evidence that emotional 
intelligence is related to job performance and affect and attitudes at work. Psiocthema, 
18(Suppl), 132–138. https://www.psicothema.com
Lord, R. G., & Maher, K. J. (1991). Leadership and information processing: Linking perceptions 
and performance. Routledge.
Luborsky, M. R., & Rubinstein, R. L. (1995). Sampling in qualitative research: Rationale, issues, 
and methods. Research on Aging, 17(1), 89–113. 
https://doi.org/10.1177/0164027595171005
Lucas, K. (2017). Computer-assisted qualitative data analysis software. Sage.
Lyngdoh, T., Liu, A. H., & Sridhar, G. (2018). Applying positive psychology to selling 
behaviors: A moderated-mediation analysis integrating subjective well-being, coping, and 
organizational identity. Journal of Business Research, 92(November), 142–153. 
https://doi.org/10.1016.j.jbusres.2018.07.020
Madanchian, M., Hussein, N., Noordin, F., & Taherdoost, H. (2017). Leadership effectiveness 
measurement and its effect on organization outcomes. Procedia Engineering, 181(2017), 
1043–1048. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.proeng.2017.02.505
Mahsud, R., Yukl, G., & Prussia, G. (2010). Leader empathy, ethical leadership, and relations-
oriented behaviors as antecedents of leader-member exchange quality. Journal of 
Managerial Psychology, 25(6), 561–577. https://doi.org/10.1108/02683941011056932
Markman, A. (2012). Are successful people nice? Harvard Business Review. 
https://hbr.org/2012/02/are-successful-people-nice
Martin, M. E. & Bridgmon, K. D. (2012). Quantitative and statistical research methods: From 
hypothesis to results. Jossey-Bass.
Martin, R. (2015). A review of the literature of the Followership since 2008: The importance of 
relationships and emotional intelligence. SAGE Open, 1–9. 
https://doi.org/10.1177/2158244015608421
Mawritz, M., Folger, R., & Latham, G. P. (2014). Supervisors’ exceedingly difficult goals and 
abusive supervision: The mediating effects of hinderence stress, anger, and anxiety. 
Journal of Organizational Behavior, 35(3), 358–372. https://doi.org/10.1002/job.1879
Mbugua, G. M., Waiganjo, E. W., & Njeru, A. (2015). Relationship between strategic 
recruitment and employee retention in commercial banks in Kenya. International Journal 
of Business Administration, 6(1), 87–97. https://doi.org/10.5430/ijba.v6n1p87
McChesney, J. (2009, January 02). Army Recruiter suicides prompt investigations. NPR. 
https://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=98913061
McNatt, D. B. (2000). Ancient Pygmalion joins contemporary management: A meta-analysis of 
the result. Journal of Applied Psychology, 85(2), 314–322. https://doi.org/10.1037/0021-
9010.85.2.314
McNatt, D. B., & Judge, T. A. (2004). Boundary conditions of the Galatea effect: A field 
experiment and constructive replication. Academy of Management Journal, 47(4), 550–
565. https://doi.org/10.2307/20159601
Miller, I. (1984). The phenomenological reduction. In perception and temporal awareness. MIT 
Press.
Morse, J. M. (1994). Designing funded qualitative research. In Denizin, N. K. & Lincoln, Y. S., 
Handbook of qualitative research (2nd ed). Sage Publications.
Moustakas, C. (1994). Phenomenological research methods. Sage Publications. 
Myers, M. (2018, May 10). Longer hours, Saturdays at work could be on tap for some Army 
Recruiters. Army Times. https://www.armytimes.com/news/your-
army/2018/05/10/longer-hours-saturdays-at-work-could-be-on-tap-some-some-army-
Recruiters/
Nahrgang, J. D., Morgeson, F. P., & Ilies, R. (2009). The development of leader-member 
exchanges: Exploring how personality and performance influence leader and member 
relationships over time. Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes, 
108(2), 256–266. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.obhdp.2008.09.002
Northouse, P. (2015). Leader member exchange theory. In Leadership theory and practice (pp. 
139–162). Sage Publications.
Noble, H. & Heale, R. (2019). Triangulation in research, with examples. Evidence – Based 
Nursing 22(3), 67-68. http://doi.org/10.1136/ebnurs-2019-103145
The Office of Business Transformation. (n.d.). Army innovation strategy 2017-2021. U.S. 
Department of the Army. https://api.army.mil/e2/c/downloads/493916.pdf 
Office of the Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Army. (2018). FY 2018 U.S. Army annual 
financial report: Winning through readiness, modernization, and reform. U.S. 
Department of the Army, Office of the Financial Reporting Directorate. 
https://comptroller.defense.gov/Portals/45/Documents/afr/fy2018/Military_Services/2018
_AFR_Army.pdf
Ones, D., Anderson, N., Viswesvaran, C., & Sinangil, H. K. (2018). The SAGE handbook of 
industrial, work & organizational psychology (Vol. 2). Sage Publications.
Park, S. (2017). The effects of the leader-member exchange relationship on rater accountability: 
A conceptual approach. Cogent Psychology, 4, Article 1400416. 
https://doi.org/10.1080/23311908.2017.1400416
Peat, G., Rodriguez, A., & Smith, J. (2019). Interpretive phenomenological analysis applied to 
healthcare research. Evidence-Based Nursing, 22(1), Article 7. 
https://doi.org/10.1136/ebnurs-2018-103017
Perugini, M., Gallucci, M., Presaghi, F., & Ercolani, A. P. (2003). The personal norm of 
reciprocity. European Journal of Personality, 17(4), 251–283. 
https://doi.org/10.1002/per.474
Phillips, A., & Bedeian, A. (1994). Leader-follower exchange quality: The role of personal and 
interpersonal attributes. Academy of Management Journal, 37(4), 990–1001. 
https://doi.org/10.2307/256608
President of the United States. (2017, December). National security strategy of the United States 
of America. https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2017/12/NSS-Final-12-18-
2017-0905.pdf 
Rafiei, N., & Davari, F. (2015). The role of human resources management on enhancing the 
teaching skills of faculty members. Journal of the Academy of Medical Sciences of 
Bosnia and Herzegovina, 27(1), 35–38. https://doi.org/10.5455/msm.2014.27.35-38
Rousseau, D. M., Ho, V. T., & Greenberg, J. (2006). I-deals: Idiosyncratic terms in employment 
relationships. Academy of Management Review, 31(4), 977–994. 
https://doi.org/10.5465/amr.2006.22527470
Rovero, J. (2016). Army senior leaders talk about the importance of Army recruiting. 
https://www.army.mil/article/177284/army_senior_leaders_talk_about_the_importance_o
f_army_recruiting
Salovey, P., & Mayer, J. D. (1990). Emotional intelligence. Imagination, Cognition, and 
Personality, 9(3), 185–211. https://doi.org/10.2109/DUGG-P24E-52WK-6CDG
Sartain, L. (n.d.). Using job goals to boost the candidate experience and hire better. 
https://bestpractices.clearcompany.com/goals-for-engagement/index.html
Scandura, T. A., & Graen, G. B. (1984). Moderating effects of initial leader-member exchange 
status on the effects of a leadership intervention. Journal of Applied Psychology, 69(3), 
428–436. https://doi.org/10.1037/0021-9010.69.3.428
Schmidt, A. (2008). Development and validation of the toxic leadership scale [Master’s thesis, 
University of Maryland]. https://drum.lib.umd.edu/bitstream/handle/1903/8176/umi-umd-
5358.pdf;jsessionid=95C54BA67D6B4CD2F716AFB9662E961B?sequence=1
Seidman, I. (1998). Interviewing as qualitative research: A guide for researchers in education 
and the social sciences. Teachers College Press. 
Sewell, G. (2009). Emotional intelligence and the Army leaderships requirements model. 
Military Review, November-December, 93–98. 
https://usacac.army.mil/sites/default/files/documents/cace/DCL/DCL_SewellEngNovDec
09.pdf
Seymen, A. (2015). Qualitative—Attitude research to determine the employee opinion of a 
business hotel in Instanbul-Turkey (Working paper). Munich Personal RePEc Archive. 
https://www.ideas.repec.org/p/pra/mprapa/65909.html
Shuck, M. B., Rocco, T. S., & Albornoz, C. A. (2011). Exploring employee engagement from 
the employee perspective: Implications for HRD. Journal of European Industrial 
Training, 35(4), 300–325. https://doi.org/10.1108/03090591111128306
Sieber J. (1992). Planning ethically responsible research: A guide for students and internal 
review boards. Sage Publications.
Sin, H.-P., Nahrgag, J. D., & Morgeson, F. P. (2009). Understanding why they don’t see eye to 
eye: An examination of leader-member exchange (LMX) agreement. Journal of Applied 
Psychology, 94(4), 1048–1057. https://doi.org/10.1037/a0014827
Snodgrass, S. E., Hecht, M. A., & Ploutz-Snyder, R. (1998). Interpersonal sensitivity: 
Expressivity or perceptivity? Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, 74(1), 238–
249. https://doi.org/10.1037//0022-3514.74.1.238
Spoehr, T., & Handy, B. (2018, February 13). The looming national security crisis: Young 
Americans unable to serve in the military. Backgrounder, (3282), 1–16. 
https://www.heritage.org/bg3282
Srivastava, A., & Bhatia, P. (2013, July). A qualitative study of employee motivation factors in 
nationalized banking sector of India. International Journal of Business and Management 
Invention, 2(7), 18–22. https://www.ijbmi.org
Strack, R., Caye, J., Linden, C., Quiros, H., & Haen, P. (2012, August 2). From capability to 
profitability. Boston Consulting Group. https://www.bcg.com/publications/2012/people-
management-human-resources-leadership-from-capability-to-profitability
Tse, H. H. M., & Lam, W. (2012). Transformational leadership and turnover: The roles of LMX 
and organizational commitment. Journal of Academy of Management, 2008(1), 1–6. 
https://doi.org/10.5465/AMBPP.2008.33723870
U.S. Army. (n.d.). Understanding the Army’s structure. https://www.army.mil/organization/
U.S. Army Cyber Command. (2019, January 15). Gen. Townsend emphasizes importance of 
recruiting, maintaining professional, lethal force. 
https://www.army.mil/article/216111/gen_townsend_emphasizes_importance_of_recruiti
ng_maintaining_professional_lethal_force
U.S. Army Recruiting Command. (n.d.a). About USAREC. 
https://recruiting.army.mil/aboutUSAREC/
U.S. Army Recruiting Command. (n.d.b). Frequently asked questions. 
https://recruiting.army.mil/Recruiter/faqs/
U.S. Army Reserve. (n.d.). Ways to serve in the United States Army Reserve. 
https://www.usar.army.mil/AGR/
Uhl-Bien, M. (2006). Relational leadership theory: Exploring the social processes of leadership 
and organizing. Leadership Quarterly, 17(6), 654–676. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.leaqua.2006.10.007
Vasileiou, K., Barnett, J., Thorpe, S., & Young, T. (2018). Characterizing and justifying sample 
size sufficiency in interview-based studies: Systematic analysis of qualitative health 
research over a 15-year period. BMC Medical Research Methodology, 18(1), 1–18. 
https://doi.org/10.1186/s12874-018-0594-7
Vroom, V. H. (1964). Work and motivation. John Wiley & Sons.
Waldman, D. A., Bass, B. M., & Yammarino, F. J. (1990). Adding to contingent-reward 
behavior: The augmenting effect of charismatic leadership. Group & Organization 
Studies, 15(4), 381–394. https://doi.org/10.1177/105960119001500404
Watson, D., & Clark, L. A. (1984). Negative affectivity: The disposition to experience aversive 
emotional states. Psychological Bulletin, 96(3), 465–490. https://doi.org/10.1037/0033-
2909.96.3.465
Watson, D., Clark, L. A., & Carey, G. (1988). Positive and negative affectivity and their relation 
to anxiety and depressive disorders. Journal of Abnormal Psychology, 97(3), 346–353. 
https://doi.org/10.1037//0021-843x.97.3.346
Wayne, S. J., Liden, R. C., Kraimer, M. L., & Graf, I. K. (1999). The role of human capital, 
motivation and supervisor sponsorship in predicting career success. Journal of 
Organizational Behavior, 20(5), 577–595. https://doi.org/10.1002/(SICI)1099-
1379(199909)20:5<577:AID-JOB958>3.0.CO;2-0
Wayne, S. J., Shore, L. M., & Liden, R. C. (1997). Perceived organizational support and leader-
member exchange: A social exchange perspective. Academy of Management Journal, 
40(1), 82–111. https://doi.org/10.2307/257021
Wayne, S. J., Shore, L. M., Bommer, W. Y., & Tetrick, L. (2002). The role of fair treatment and 
rewards in perceptions of organizational support and leader-member exchange. Journal 
of Applied Psychology, 87(3), 590–598. https://doi.org/10.1037//0021-9010.87.3.590
Weiss, R. (1994). Learning from strangers: The art and method of qualitative interview studies. 
The Free Press.
Whitehurst, J. (2015, May 11). Managing performance when it’s hard to measure. 
https://hbr.org/2015/05/managing-performance-when-its-hard-to-measure
Witty, A. (2018). 5 tips for practicing self-promotion without being totally annoying. 
https://www.entrepreneur.com/article/308559
Wood, R. F., Whelan, J., Sojo, V., & Wong, M. (2013). Goals, goal orientation, strategies, and 
performance. In E. A. Locke, & G. P. Latham (Eds.), New developments in goal setting 
and task performance (pp. 90–114). Routledge.
Woodside, A. G. (2016). Case study research: Core skills in using 15 genres. Emerald Group 
Publishing Limited.
Yukl, G. (2012). Effective leadership behavior: What we know and what questions need more 
attention. Academy of Management Perspectives, 26(1), 66–85. 
https://doi.org/10.5465/amp.2012.0088
Yüksel, P. & Y?ld?r?m, S. (2015). Theoretical frameworks, methods, and procedures for 
conducting phenomenological studies in educational settings. Turkish Online Journal of 
Qualitative Inquiry, 6(1), 1–20. https://dergipark.org.tr/
Zenger, T. R., & Lawrence, B. S. (1989). Organizational demography: The differential effects of 
age and tenure distributions on technical communication. Academy of Management 
Journal, 32(2), 353–376. https://doi.org/10.2307/256366
Zhang, X., Qian, J., Wang, B., Jin, Z., Wang, J., & Wang, Y. (2017). Leaders’ behaviors matter: 
The role of delegation in promoting employees’ feedback-seeking behavior. Frontiers in 
Psychology, 8, Article 920. https://doi.org/10.3389/fpsyg.2017.00920
?
Appendices
      ?
Appendix A: Interview Questions
1.	Please describe your best leader you have served under in the Army.
2.	Do you know where you stand with your leader, and do you usually know how satisfied your 
leader is with what you do?
3.	How much of your daily work are you able to conduct with total autonomy?
4.	How does your leader understand your difficulties and needs?
5.	How does your leader recognize your potential?
6.	How prepared do you feel you are as a Recruiter?
7.	How much time does your leader devote to solving your problems?
8.	How likely would your leader be to defend your actions and decisions?
9.	Describe how your leader handles work-stressors with your team. Please provide an example 
of a recent situation.
10.	How would you describe your leader’s decision-making process?
11.	How would you characterize your working relationship with your leader?
12.	How would you describe your leader’s ability to influence your level of motivation?
13.	How has your leader influenced your team’s ability to be successful?
14.	How does your leader leverage positivity in the workplace?
15.	What motivates you to be successful as a Recruiter?
16.	How are you currently incentivized to be successful?
17.	What would your ideal incentives be, and where would the benchmark exist to achieve said 
incentives?
18.	What would you change if you reversed roles with your leader?
?
Appendix B: IRB Approval Letter
Date: August 05, 2020
PI Name: Cole Hamilton
Chair Name (if applicable): Chris Agada
Application Type: Initial Submission
Review Level: Exempt - Category 2
Study Title: A Phenomenological Study of Positive and Effective Leadership’s Influence on
Success in Iowa Army Recruiting Companies

Approval Date: August 05, 2020

Dear Cole:

Congratulations! Your IRB application has been approved. Your responsibilities include the
following:

      1. Follow the protocol as approved. If you need to make changes with your population,
      recruitment, or consent, please submit a modification form.

      2. If there is a consent process in your research, you must use the consent form approved
with your final application. Please make sure all participants receive a copy of the
consent form.
3. If there are any injuries, problems, or complaints from participants (adverse
events), you must notify the IRB at IRB@ncu.edu within 24 hours.
4. IRB audit of procedures may occur. The IRB will notify you if your study will be
audited.
5. When data are collected and de-identified, please submit a study closure form to the 
IRB.
6. You must maintain current CITI certification until you have submitted a study closure
form.
7. If you are a student, please be aware that you must be enrolled in an active dissertation
course with NCU in order to collect data.

Best wishes as you conduct your research!

Respectfully,

Northcentral University Institutional Review Board
Email: irb@ncu.edu

i
      
      
      1
      
      
      
