Description:* SUMMARY OF ROLE The Analyst role will provide support to the Operations and finance organizations. This role will be responsible for revenue reporting and analysis, providing technical support in developing and maintaining database applications, and business intelligence applications. They will closely monitor incoming shipments from vendors, both internal and external to provide a revenue forecast based on receipt and shipment of the products. The incoming Bills of Lading along with internal purchase order information to be matched to customer orders and future shipments. This individual will also assist in any Drop Shipments made in order to make sure that the revenue is recognized quickly and accurately. This role will predominantly include data and database analysis, management and reporting. SPECIFIC JOB RESPONSIBILITIES
Gather, prepare, build and analyze reports and provide these reports to operations, customer service sales and finance to help and support in achieving monthly revenue targets.
Participate in the development and maintenance of data warehouse, subsequent reporting enhancements, including the creation of new reporting templates and analytical reports.
Work with internal and external customers to develop and maintain new standardized reports including the creation of new reporting templates and analytical reports:
Check data consistency, structure and format
Manage report templates and issued reports
Manage and own the reporting project management process to identify the needs, document requirements
Revise and create automated templates
Address report/information requests, clearly communicating commitments, issues,completion dates and status with requestor and with management
Learn and become proficient in tools used. These tools to include MK Order System, XA, SharePoint, and other Web-based tools.
Prepare and analyze date for later use in Oracle
Participate in internal collaborative projects.
Perform other tasks, duties and responsibilities that may be assigned from time to time *Additional Skills & Qualifications:* Education and Qualifications Essential
Bachelor’s Degree in Business Administration, IT, Computer Science, MIS or equivalent Experience Essential
Expert proficiency with MS Excel and MS Access, advanced proficiency on other MS Office applications
Working knowledge of SharePoint
Strong analytical, problem solving skills and close attention to details
Comprehension of technology and data management used in process of collecting, storing and retrieving data
Excellent project organization skills
Proactive, detail oriented and self-motivated
Able to work independently and under pressure *Experience Level:* Intermediate Level
