Cole Hamilton
Mrs. Barbara Allen
English 102
1 May 2010

	Hilda Doolittle, also known as H.D., wrote about life, death and everything in 
between.  She describes the hardships of life, how nothing will last forever, beauty 
without strength will always die, and how life itself ultimately ends in death.  Heat, Cities, 
Sheltered Gardens, Adonis, four of her poems that speak within one another as if they 
are all sending the same message, that everything must come to an end eventually.
	Hilda Doolittle was born in 1911 and died in 1961.  She was born into the hardest 
times that the United States had ever seen.  Between three major wars and the Great 
Depression, it is easy to see why she talks about her material.  “Each of us like you has 
died once, has passed through drift of wood-leaves, cracked and bent and tortured and 
unbent in the winter-frost, the burnt into gold points, lighted afresh, crisp amber scales 
of gold-leaf, gold turned and re-welded in the sun”.  It is a description of a tree loses its 
leaves and how she feels as if every person has lost someone dear to them whether a 
close friend or family member.  The tree loses its leaves in the fall, just for them to re-
grow again in the spring.  It is easy to see, due to her time period, that every person has 
had someone close to them die.  With every death there is a new birth, it is the cycle of 
life.  
	No one can tell us exactly how the cycle of life is going to play out, when it is our 
time to go it is our time to go.  In Sheltered Garden, HD writes as if she knows she is out 
of time and she will soon leave this earth to enter a much more beautiful place, “I have 
had enough.  I gasp for breath.  Every way ends, every road, every foot-path leads at 
last to the hill-crest”.  HD was one of six children and the only daughter that lived 
through their childhood.  Death was extremely common in those days, and sometimes 
looked at in a positive light in the view that that child did not have to endure the suffering 
that everyone else did, they got to go straight to heaven, a better place.  “O to blot out 
this garden to forget, to find a new beauty in some terrible wind-tortured place.”  
	The tragedies that were endured by those in the early 1900’s were monumental.  
Not only were men dying in war, but the economy crashed, leaving peoples whole life 
savings disappeared in an instant.  Homes were abandoned and people crowded in 
together wherever they could.  “Can we believe -- by an effort comfort our hearts:  it is 
not waste all this, not placed here in disgust, street after street, each patterned alike, no 
grace to lighten a single house of the hundred crowded into one garden-space.”  HD 
was born in Bethlehem, Pennsylvania, and lived there until she was nine.  Her father, 
who became an astronomy professor at the University of Pennsylvania, moved the 
family to Philadelphia when HD was nine years old.  It is clear to see where HD got her 
ideas from in the poem “Cities”.  To move from a small town like Bethlehem to one of 
the biggest cities at the time would be a shock to a nine year old girl.  “For alas, he had 
crowded the city so full that men could not grasp beauty”, “And in these dark cells, 
packed street after street, souls live, hideous yet -- O disfigured, defaced, with no trace 
of the beauty men once held so light.”
	HD lived in one of the biggest cities when the Great Depression hit, leaving 
almost everyone homeless and struggling to feed themselves and their families.  It is no  
doubt that when she talks in her poem how we need help, that it is about the everyday 
life of those during the Great Depression.  “O wind, rend open the heat, cut apart the 
heat, rend it to tatters.  Fruit cannot drop through this thick air -- fruit cannot fall into heat 
that presses up and blunts the points of pears and rounds the grapes.  Cut the heat -- 
plough through it, turning it on either side of your path.”  The people needed relief, they 
needed food, shelter, jobs and all other essentials to live.  The heat, which is talking 
about the hardships of a wrecked economy and the tole that without jobs there would is 
no food on the table.  She tells us that the Fruit cannot drop through this thick air, that if 
there are no jobs, there is no one to buy food or to buy food from.  It is a downward 
spiral that leads to the destruction of many, and without help from the Government to 
plough through it, no one would have ever recovered.  
	Hilda Doolittle lived through some of the worst days in our country’s history.  She 
still found a light within the darkness and expressed it through her poetry and novels.  
She wrote about life and death, but she also wrote about the beautiful things in 
between.  The beautiful things that you can only see on the road of life, with life comes 
death just as with tragedy eventually joyfulness will emerge again.  













Works Cited
Doolittle, Hilda.  “Adonis by Hilda Doolittle (HD) at Old Poetry”.  Adonis.  1 May 2010.  
<http://oldpoetry.com/opoem/13183-Hilda-Doolittle--HD--Adonis>.

 Poetry Foundation.  “H.D. :  The Poetry Foundation”.  H.D. Biography.  1 May 2010.  
<http://www.poetryfoundation.org/archive/poet.html?id=80773#bibliography>.  

Doolittle, Hilda.  “Heat.”  The Bedford Introduction to Literature.  Michael Meyer.  
Boston, MA, 2008.  881-882.  Print.

Doolittle, Hilda.  “Poems by Hilda Doolittle : 16 / 20”.  Sheltered Garden.  1 May 2010.  
<http://www.poemhunter.com/poem/sheltered-garden/>.

Doolittle, Hilda.  “Representative Poetry Online -- H.D. : Cities”.  H.D. Cities.  1 May 
2010.  <https://tspace.library.utoronto.ca/html/1807/4350/poem685.html>. 
	1
	1


	
